Krsnotkirtana Gana Nartana Parau
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Sad-Goswamyastakam (Eight Prayers to the Six Gosvamis)
Author: Śrīnivasa Acarya
(1)
kṛṣṇotkīrtana-gāna-nartana-parau
premāmṛtāmbho-nidhī
dhīrādhīra-jana-priyau priya-karau
nirmatsarau pūjitau
śrī-caitanya-kṛpā-bharau bhuvi bhuvo
bhārāvahantārakau
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīvagopālakau
(2)
nānā-śāstra-vicāraṇaika-nipuṇau
sad-dharma-saṁsthāpakau
lokānāṁ hita-kāriṇau tri-bhuvane
mānyau śaraṇyākarau
rādhā-kṛṣṇa-padāravindabhajanā-
nandena mattālikau
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
(3)
śrī-gaurāṅga-guṇānuvarṇana-vidhau
śraddhā-samṛddhy-anvitau
pāpottāpa-nikṛntanau tanubhṛtāṁ
govinda-gānāmṛtaiḥ
ānandāmbudhi-vardhanaika-nipuṇau
kaivalya-nistārakau
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
(4)
tyaktvā tūrṇam aśeṣa-maṇḍala-pati-
śreṇīṁ sadā tuccha-vat
bhūtvā dīna-gaṇeśakau karuṇayā
kaupīna-kanthāśritau
gopī-bhāva-rasāmṛtābdhi-laharī-
kallola-magnau muhur
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
(5)
kūjat-kokila-haṁsa-sārasa-gaṇā-
kīrṇe mayūrākule
nānā-ratna-nibaddha-mūla-viṭapa-
śrī-yukta-vṛndāvane
rādhā-kṛṣṇam ahar-niśaṁ prabhajatau
jīvārthadau yau mudā
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
(6)
saṅkhyā-pūrvaka-nāma-gāna-natibhiḥ
kālāvasānī-kṛtau
nidrāhāra-vihārakādi-vijitau
cātyanta-dīnau ca yau
rādhā-kṛṣṇa-guṇa-smṛter madhurimā-
nandena sammohitau
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
(7)
rādhā-kuṇḍa-taṭe kalinda-tanayā-
tīre ca vaṁśīvaṭe
premonmāda-vaśād aśeṣa-daśayā
grastau pramattau sadā
gāyantau ca kadā harer guṇa-varaṁ
bhāvā vibhūtau mudā
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīvagopālakau
(8)
he rādhe vraja-devike ca lalite
he nanda-sūno kutaḥ
śrī-govardhana-kalpa-pādapa-tale
kālindī-vane kutaḥ
ghoṣantāv iti sarvato vraja-pure
khedair mahā-vihvalau
vande rūpa-sanātanau raghu-yugau
śrī-jīva-gopālakau
t:
t: 1) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who are always engaged in chanting the holy name of Kṛṣṇa and dancing. They are just like the ocean of love of God, and they are popular both with the gentle and with the ruffians, because they are not envious of anyone. Whatever they do, they are all-pleasing to everyone, and they are fully blessed by Lord Caitanya. Thus they are engaged in missionary activities meant to deliver all the conditioned souls in the material universe.
t: 2) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who are very expert in scrutinizingly studying all the revealed scriptures with the aim of establishing eternal religious principles for the benefit of all human beings. Thus they are honored all over the three worlds and they are worth taking shelter of because they are absorbed in the mood of the gopis and are engaged in the transcendental loving service of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa.
t: 3) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who are very much enriched in understanding of Lord Caitanya and who are thus expert in narrating His transcendental qualities. They can purify all conditioned souls from the reactions of their sinful activities by pouring upon them transcendental
songs about Govinda. As such, they are very expert in increasing the limits of the ocean of transcendental bliss, and they are the saviors of the living entities from the devouring mouth of liberation.
t: 4) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who kicked off all association of aristocracy as insignificant. In order to deliver the poor conditioned souls, they accepted loincloths, treating themselves as mendicants, but they are always merged in the ecstatic ocean of the gopis' love for Kṛṣṇa and bathe always and repeatedly in the waves of that ocean.
t: 5) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who were always engaged in worshiping Rādhā-Kṛṣṇa in the transcendental land of Vṛndāvana where there are beautiful trees full of fruits and flowers which have under their roots all valuable jewels. The Gosvāmīs are perfectly competent to bestow upon the living entities the greatest boon of the goal of life.
t: 6) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who were engaged in chanting the holy names of the Lord and bowing down in a scheduled measurement. In this way they utilized their valuable lives and in executing these devotional activities they conquered over eating and sleeping and were always meek and humble enchanted by remembering the transcendental qualities of the Lord.
t: 7) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who were sometimes on the bank of the Rādhā-kunda lake or the shores of the Yamuna and sometimes at Vaṁśīvaṭa. There they appeared just like madmen in the full ecstasy of love for Kṛṣṇa, exhibiting different transcendental symptoms in their bodies, and they were merged in the ecstasy of Kṛṣṇa consciousness.
t: 8) I offer my respectful obeisances unto the six Gosvāmīs, namely Śrī Rūpa Gosvāmī, Śrī Sanātana Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, Śrī Raghunātha dāsa Gosvāmī, Śrī Jīva Gosvāmī, and Śrī Gopāla Bhaṭṭa Gosvāmī, who were chanting very loudly everywhere in Vṛndāvana, shouting, "Queen of Vṛndāvana, Rādhārāṇī! O Lalita! O son of Nanda Mahārāja! Where are you all now? Are you just on the hill of Govardhana, or are you under the trees on the bank of the Yamunā? Where are you?" These were their moods in executing Kṛṣṇa consciousness.
