Anadi Karama Phale
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Gitavali (Section: Śrī Siksastakam Song 5)
(1)
anādi’ karama-phale, paḍi’ bhavārṇara jale,
taribāre nā dekhi upāya
ei viṣaya-halāhale, divā-niśi hiyā jvale,
mana kabhu sukha nāhi pāya
(2)
āśā-pāśa-śata-śata, kleśa deya avirata,
pravṛtti-ūrmira tāhe khelā
kāma-krodha-ādi chaya, bāṭapāḍe deya bhaya,
avasāna hoilo āsi’ belā
(3)
jnāna-karma-ṭhaga dui, more pratārīya loi,
avaśeṣe phele sindhu-jale
e heno samaye, bandhu, tumi kṛṣṇa kṛpā-sindhu,
kṛpā kori’ tolo more bale
(4)
patita-kiṅkare dhari’, pāda-padma-dhuli kari’,
deho bhaktivinoda āśraya
āmi tava nitya-dāsa, bhuliyā māyāra pāśa,
baddha ho’ye āchi dayāmaya
t:
t: 1) I have fallen into the ocean of material existence as a result of my selfish activities, which are without beginning, and I see no means of deliverance from this great ocean of nescience. Day and night my heart burns from the poison of these worldly activities, and on account of this my mind never finds any satisfaction or happiness.
t: 2) Hundreds and thousands of desires, like nooses around my neck, constantly give me misery and trouble. In that great ocean of nescience play the waves of materialistic tendency. In this world there are many thieves and rogues, of whom six are prominent; lust, anger, greed, envy, illusion, and madness. They are causing me great fear, and in this way my life is coming to an end.
t: 3) The two highway robbers, mental speculation and fruitive activity, have cheated me and misled me, and finally they are throwing me into the ocean of misery. At such a time as this, my dear Kṛṣṇa, You are the only friend, and You are the ocean of mercy and compassion. I have no strength to get out of this ocean of nescience, so I pray to Your lotus feet that You will be kind and by Your strength uplift me from this ocean of suffering.
t: 4) Accept this fallen servant and fix me as a particle of dust on Your lotus feet. Kindly give me shelter to this Bhaktivinoda. O most merciful Lord, actually I am Your eternal servant, but having forgotten this I have become bound up in the network of maya.
