Kabe Habe Heno Dasa Mor
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Ucchvasa: Prarthana Lalasmayi Song 9)
(1)
kabe ha'be heno dasa mor
tyaji' jada asa, bividha bandhana,
chadibo samsar ghor
(2)
brndabanabhede, nabaddvipa-dhame,
bandhibo kutirakhani
sacir nandana-carana-asroy
koribo sambandha mani'
(3)
jahnavi-puline, cinmoy-kanane,
basiya bijana-sthale
kṛṣṇa-namamrta, nirantara pibo,
dakibo 'gauranga' bo'le
(4)
ha gaura-nitai, tora du'ti bhai,
patita-janer bandhu
adhama patita, ami he durjana,
hao more krpa sindhu
(5)
kandite kandite, sola-krosa-dhama,
jahnavi ubhoy kule
bhramite bhramite, kabhu bhagya-phale,
dekhi kuchu taru-mule
(6)
ha ha manohara, ki dekhinu ami,
boliya murchita ho'bo
samvit paiya, kandibo gopane,
smari dunhu krpa-laba
t:
t: 1) When, oh when will such a condition be mine? Renouncing all of my mundane desires which are giving rise to various types of bondage, I will give up this dark, ghastly material existence.
t: 2) I will build my small hut at Navadvipa-dhama, seeing the land as being non-different from Vṛndāvana-dhama. There I will finally establish my relationship under the shelter of the lotus feet of the Son of Mother Saci.
t: 3) Living in a solitary place in a spiritually conscious forest on the banks of the Ganga, I will incessantly drink the pure nectar of Kṛṣṇa's name, and I will loudly shout the name of Gauranga thus:
t: 4) "Oh Gaura-Nitai! You two Brothers are the only true friend of all the fallen souls! I am the lowest of the low, most fallen and wicked-minded, so kindly bestow Your ocean of mercy upon me.
t: 5) Thus repeatedly sobbing and calling out, I will roam all over the abode of 32 square miles, sometimes on one bank of the Ganga and sometime on the other. And sometimes, while wandering about, if I ever receive a drop of good fortune, I may suddenly glance over at the base of a tree (and behold some vision there. . . )
t: 6) I will blurt out: "Ha Ha, how wonderful! What amazing thing have I seen now?!!", and I will faint senseless on the spot. Regaining consciousness later, I will hide and weep secretly, remembering that all this ecstasy is due to receiving just a tiny speck of Śrī Śrī Gaura-Nitai's mercy.
