Śrīta Kamala
fficial Name: Mangala Gitam
Author: Jayadeva Goswami
ook Name: Gita Govinda (Section: Song 2)
(1)
śrita-kamalā-kuca-maṇḍala dhṛta-kuṇḍala e
kalita-lalita-vana-māla jaya jaya deva hare
(2)
dina-maṇi-maṇḍala-maṇḍana bhava-khaṇḍana e
muni-jana-mānasa-haṁsa jaya jaya deva hare
(3)
kāliya-viṣa-dhara-gañjana jana-rañjana e
yadukula-nalina-dineśa jaya jaya deva hare
(4)
madhu-mura-naraka-vināśana garuḍāsana e
sura-kula-keli-nidāna jaya jaya deva hare
(5)
amala-kamala-dala-locana bhava-mocana e
tribhuvana-bhuvana-nidhāna jaya jaya deva hare
(6)
janaka-sutā-kṛta-bhūṣaṇa jita-dūṣaṇa e
samara-śamita-daśa-kaṇṭha jaya jaya deva hare
(7)
abhinava-jala-dhara-sundara dhṛta-mandara e
śrī-mukha-candra-cakora jaya jaya deva hare
(8)
tava caraṇaṁ praṇatā vayam iti bhāvaya e
kuru kuśalaṁ praṇateṣu jaya jaya deva hare
(9)
śrī-jayadeva-kaver idaṁ kurute mudam e
mańgalam ujjvala-gītaṁ jaya jaya deva hare
t:
t: 1) Glories, glories to Lord Hari, the Supreme Personality of Godhead, who is bedecked with jeweled earrings and a garland of forest flowers and whose feet are marked with a lotus!
t: 2) The Lord's face shines like the whorl of the sun. He removes the miseries of His devotees and is the resting place of the minds of the swan-like sages. Glories! Glories to Lord Śrī Hari!
t: 3) O Supreme Personality of Godhead who destroyed the demoniac Kaliya serpent! O Lord, You are the beloved of all living entities and the sun in the galaxy of the Yadu dynasty. Glories! Glories to Lord Śrī Hari.
t: 4) O Lord, destroyer of the demons Madhu, Mura and Naraka! Seated on Garuda, You are the source of joy for the demigods. All glories to Hari!
t: 5) O Lord Your eyes are like lotus petals, and You destroy the bondage of the material world. You are the maintainer of the three worlds. Glories to Lord Hari!
t: 6) O Lord, as the gem of the sons of Janaka, You were victorious over all the asuras, and You smashed the greatest asura, the ten-headed Ravana. Glories to Lord Hari!
t: 7) O Supreme Personality of Godhead who held the Govardhana Hill! Your complexion is like a fresh monsoon cloud, and Śrī Rādhārāni is like a cakora bird who is nourished by drinking the light of Your moonlike face. Glories! Glories to Lord Hari.
t: 8) O Lord, I offer my humble obeisances at Your lotus feet. Please bless me by Your limitless mercy. Glories! Glories to Lord Śrī Hari!
t: 9) The poet Śrī Jayadeva offers this song of devotion and shining good fortune to Thee. All glories! All glories to Lord Śrī Hari!
