Sujanarbuda Radhita Pada Yugam
fficial Name: Śrī Prabhupāda Padma Stavakah (Prayer unto lotus feet of the transcendental personality of Śrīla Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura Prabhupada)
Author: Śrī Śrīmad Bhakti Raksaka Śrīdhara
Deva Goswami Maharaja
(1)
sujanārbuda-rādhita-pāda-yugaṅ yuga-dharma-dhurandhara-pātra-varam varadābhaya-dāyaka-pūjya-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(2)
bhajanorjita-sajjana-saňgha-patiṅ
patitādhika-kāruņikaika-gatim
gati-vañcita-vañcakācintya-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(3)
ati-komala-kāñcana-dīrgha-tanuṅ
tanu-nindita-hema-mŗnāla-madam
madanārbuda-vandita-candra-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(4)
nija-sevaka-tāraka-rañji-vidhuṅ
vidhutāhita-huňkŗta-siṅha-varam
varaņāgata-bāliśa-śanda-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(5)
vipulī-kŗta-vaibhava-gaura-bhuvaṅ
bhuvaneșu vikīrtita-gaura-dayam
dayanīya-gaņārpita-gaura-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(6)
cira-gaura-janāśraya-viśva-guruṅ guru-gaura-kiśoraka-dāsya-param
paramādŗta-bhaktivinoda-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(7)
raghu-rūpa-sanātana-kīrti-dharaṅ dharaņī-tala-kīrtita-jīva-kavim
kavirāja-narottama-sakhya-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(8)
kŗpayā hari-kīrtana-mūrti-dharaṅ dharaņī-bhara-hāraka-gaura-janam janakādhika-vatsala-snigdha-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(9)
śaraņāgata-kiňkara-kalpa-taruṅ taru-dhik-kŗta-dhīra-vadānya-varam varadendra-gaņārcita-divya-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(10)
parahaṅsa-varaṅ paramārtha-patiṅ
patitoddharaņe kŗta-veśa-yatim
yati-rāja-gaņaiģ parisevya-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
(11)
vŗșabhānu-sutā-dayitānucaraṅ
caraņāśrita-reņu-dharas tam aham mahad-adbhuta-pāvana-śakti-padaṅ
praņamāmi sadā prabhupāda-padam
t:
t: 1) His lotus feet are served in devotion by multitudes of high, virtuous souls; he is the establisher of the religion of the age (as Śrī Kṛṣṇa- sankirtana); he is the presiding monarch (of the Visva Vaiṣṇava-Raja-Sabha - the universal society of the pure devotees that are the true 'kings' or guides of all); and he is the fulfiller of the most cherished desires of those who dispel fear (for all souls). I make my obeisance unto the lotus feet of that illustrious great soul, worshippable by one and all - perpetually do I make my obeisance unto the radiance emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Lord.
t: 2) He is the leader of the fortunate souls blessed with the treasure of internal pure devotion; he is greatly merciful upon the fallen souls, being their only shelter; and his inconceivable holy feet are the shelter for the deceivers, by deceiving them. I make my obeisance unto his lotus feet - perpetually do I make my obeisance unto the radiance emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Lord.
t: 3) I make my obeisance unto his divine, charming yet commanding lofty form of golden hue. That beautiful figure shames the mad ecstasy of golden lotus stems. Venerated by tens of millions of Cupids, the moons of the toenails of my Worshipful Divine Master reveal the beauty of his lotus feet. Perpetually do I make my obeisance
unto that effulgence emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Lord.
t: 4) Like the moon that delights the stars, he is surrounded by his circle of personal servitors, making their hearts bloom in divine ecstasy. The malicious non-devotees are made to flee in panic by the sound of his thunderous roar, and the simple, inoffensive souls attain the ultimate fortune by accepting his lotus feet. I make my obeisance unto him; perpetually do I make my obeisance unto the brilliance emanating from the toenails of the holy lotus feet of my Lord.
t: 5) He has revealed the vast, magnificent beauty of Śrī Gaura Dhama; he has broadcast the tidings of the supreme magnanimity of Śrī Gauranga throughout the whole universe; and in the hearts of the fit recipients of his grace, he has firmly established the lotus feet of Śrī Gaura. I make my obeisance unto him; perpetually do I make my obeisance unto the effulgence emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Lord.
t: 6) He is the eternal shelter and the Universal Guru for the souls surrendered unto Śrī Gauranga. Absorbed in the service of his Gurudeva, Śrī Gaura Kisora, he wholeheartedly adores Śrī Bhaktivinoda Thakura. I make my obeisance unto him; perpetually do I make my obeisance unto the effulgence emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Lord.
t: 7) He is the illustrious personality to raise the flag that sings the glory of Śrī Rupa, Śrī Sanatana, and Śrī Raghunatha. His glory is sung throughout the world as nondifferent from the powerful personality of brilliant erudition, Śrī Jiva. And he has won the renown of being one with the hearts of Śrīla Krsnadasa Kaviraja and Thakura Narottama. I make my obeisance unto him; perpetually do I bow down to the brilliance emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Divine Master.
t: 8) Bestowing his grace upon all souls, he is Hari- kirtana incarnate. As the associate of Śrī Gaura, he relieves Mother Earth of the burden of offenses committed upon her. And he is so gracious that his endearance of all beings excels that of even a father. I make my obeisance unto him - the mine of all these qualities; perpetually do I bow down to the effulgence emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Divine Master.
t: 9) Like a wish-fulfilling tree for his surrendered servitors (he fulfills their heart's aspirations), even a tree is shamed by his magnanimity and forbearance. And great personalities who are competent to confer boons - they, too, worship
his lotus feet. I make my obeisance unto him;
perpetually do I bow down to the radiance
emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my
Divine Master.
t: 10) The crownjewel of the paramahamsas, the Prince of the treasure of the supreme perfection of life, Śrī Kṛṣṇa-prema, he accepted the robes of a mendicant sannyasi just to deliver the fallen souls. The topmost tridandi sannyasis attend his lotus feet. I make my obeisance unto him; perpetually do I bow down to the effulgence emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Divine Master.
t: 11) He is the dearmost intimate follower of the Divine Daughter of Śrī Vrsabhanu, and I know myself as the most fortunate by taking the dust of his holy feet upon my head. I make my obeisance unto his invincible, wondrously purifying lotus feet
- perpetually do I bow to the brilliance emanating from the toenails of the holy feet of my Divine Master.
