Kali Kukkura Kadan
fficial Name: Nama Kirtana (Names of Lord Caitanya)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Ucchvasa: Ucchvasa Kirtana Nama Kirtana Song 1)
(1)
kali-kukkura-kadana jadi cao (he)
kali-yuga-pavana, kali-bhoya-nasana,
śrī-saci-nandana gao (he)
(2)
gadadhara-madana, nita’yer prāṇa-dhana,
advaiter prapujita gora
nimai bisvambhar, śrīnivas-iswar,
bhakta-samuha-cita-cora
(3)
nadiya-sasadhar, mayapura-iswar,
nama-pravartana sura
grhi-jana-siksaka, nyasi-kula-nayaka,
madhava rādhā-bhava-pura
(4)
sarvabhauma-sodhana, gajapati-tarana,
ramananda-posana vira
rupananda-vardhana, sanatana-palana,
haridasa-modana dhira
(5)
braja-rasa bhavana, dusta-mata-satana,
kapati vighatana kama
suddha-bhakta-palana, suska-jnana tadana,
chala-bhakti-dusana rama
t:
t: 1) If you want to be rid of the influence of the dog-like personality of kali, then just sing the glories of the beautiful Son of Mother Saci (Saci- nandana). He is the Savior of the kali-yuga (Kali- yuga Pavana), and He is (Kali-bhay-nasana), the destroyer of all fear caused by the age of quarrel.
t: 2) He maddens Śrī Gadhadara with His name, (Gadadhara-madana) He is the treasure of the life of Śrī Nityananda Prabhu (Nita'yer Prāṇa-dhana), and He is the most worshipable object of Śrī Advaita Acarya (Advaiter Prapujita). He is affectionately named Nimai by His mother, due to being born under a Nim tree, and He has been named Visvambhara by His grandfather. He is the only Lord of Śrī Śrīvasa (Śrīnivas-isvar), and He steals the hearts of all the assembled devotees (Bhakta-samuha-cita-cora).
t: 3) Lord Caitanya is the moon over Nadia (Nadiya- sasadhar), the Lord of Śrī Mayapura-dhama (Mayapura-isvar), and the divine propogator of His own name (Nama-pravartana Sura). He is the instructor of family men (Grhijana-siksaka), and He is also the hero of those who are in the renounced order (Nyasi-kula-nayaka). He is the husband of the Goddess of Fortune (Madhava), and He is over-flowing with the ecstatic moods and sentiments of Śrīmati Rādhārāni (Rādhā- bhava-pura).
t: 4) Lord Caitanya is the corrector and purifier of Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya (Sarvabhauma- sodhana), and the deliverer of King Prataparudra (Gajapati-tarana), the source of nourishment of Śrīla Rāmananda Raya (Rāmananda-posana), and He is a great hero (Vira). He increases the ecstasy of Śrīla Rupa Gosvami (Rupananda-vardhana), He is the maintainer and protector of Śrīla Sanatana Gosvami (Sanatana-palana), He gladdens Haridasa Thakura (Haridasa-modana) and He is very grave (Dhira).
t: 5) Lord Caitanya is the source of all the transcendental mellows of Vraja-dhama (Braja- rasa Bhavana), He is the destroyer of all mischievous and wicked mentality (Dustamata- satana), and He dissolves the mundane lust of the deceitful insincere souls by His causeless mercy (Kapati Vighatana Kama). He maintains and protects His pure Vaiṣṇava devotees (Suddha- bhakta-palana), and He chastises dry speculative knowledge (Suskajnana Tadana). He destroys pretentious and hypocritical devotion (Chala- bhakti-dusana), and He is the reservoir of pleasure (Rāma)
