Huhunkara Garjanadi Aho Ratra
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Advaitastakam
Author: Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya
(1)
huhuńkāra-garjanādi aho-rātra-sad-guṇaṁ
hā kṛṣṇa rādhikā-nātha prārthanādi-bhāvanam
dhūpa-dīpa-kasturī ca candranādi-lepanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(2)
gańgā vāri mano hāri tulasyādi mañjarī
kṛṣṇa-jñāna sadā dhyāna prema-vāri jharjharī
kṛpābdhiḥ karuṇā-nātha bhaviṣyati prārthanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(3)
muhur muhuḥ kṛṣṇa kṛṣṇa uccaiḥ svare gāyataṁ
ahe nātha jaga trātaḥ mama dṛṣṭi-gocaram
dvibhuja karuṇā-nātha dīyatāṁ sudarśanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(4)
śrī advaita prārthanārtha jagannātha-ālayaṁ
śacī mātur garbha-jāta caitanya karuṇāmayam
śrī advaita-sańga-rańga-kīrtana-vilāsanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(5)
advaita-caraṇāravinda-jñana-dhyāna-bhāvanam
sadādvaita-pāda-padma-reṇu-rāśi-dhāraṇam
dehi bhaktiṁ fagannātha rakṣa mām abhajanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(6)
sarva dātaḥ sītā-nātha prāṇeśvara sad guṇaṁ
ye japanti sītā-nātha-pāda-padma kevalam
dīyatāṁ karuṇā-nātha bhakti-yogaḥ tat kṣaṇaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(7)
śrī caitanya jayādvaita nityānanda karuṇa-mayaṁ
eka ańga tridhāmūrti kai'sorādi sadā varam
jīva-trāṇa bhakti-jñāna huńkārādi garjanaṁ
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
(8)
dīna-hīna-nindakādi prema bhakti-dāyakaṁ
sarva dātaḥ sītā-nātha śānti pura nāyakam
rāga-rańga sańga-doṣa karma yoga mokṣanam
sītā-nāthādvaita-caraṇāravinda-bhāvanam
t:
t: 1) Roaring like a lion and thundering like a monsoon cloud, He prays day and night, "O Krishna, O Lord of Radhika!" He smears the Salagrama-sila with the paste of sandalwood and musk and offers ārati with incense and lamp. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 2) He worships the Salagrama-sila with water of the Ganga mixed with Tulasi manjaris and leaves. Tears of love incessently flow from His eyes as He meditates upon Krishna and sings His glories. He prays to the Supreme Lord, who is an ocean of mercy, to descend to this world. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 3) Again and again He loudly sings the name of Krishna, praying to Him, "O my Lord, deliverer of the universe, please manifest Your exceedingly merciful two-armed form in my vision. Please award me the proper vision." I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 4) Due to the prayers of Śrī Advaitacarya, Śrī Caitanya appeared in the house of Jagannatha Misra in the womb of Mother Saci. In order to enjoy the association of Śrī Advaita, Śrī Caitanya sang the Holy Name of the Lord congregationally and danced with the devotees. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 5) The lotus feet of Śrī Advaita are the goal of my knowledge and the object of my meditation. I always keep the dust of His lotus feet on my head. O my Lord, please bestow devotional service upon this unworthy soul and protect him. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 6) Śrī Advaita, the Lord of Sitadevi, is the bestower of all benedictions and perfections, and He is the Lord of my life. That most merciful Lord immediately bestows bhakti upon those who meditate exclusively upon his lotus feet. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 7) All glories to Śrī Advaita along with Śrī Caitanya and the most merciful Nityananda Prabhu. They
are all One, but in three different forms, depicting the different phases of life, like adolescence, etc. Śrī Advaita roars and thunders in order to deliver the living entities by giving them transcendental knowledge and pure devotional service. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
t: 8) He bestows loving devotional service upon the lowly, mean, blasphemous and other such fallen people. The bestower of everything, Śrī Advaita, the Lord of Sitadevi, is the leader of Santipura. He frees one from the bondage of material attachments, bad association, fruitive activities and mystic yoga. I meditate upon the lotus feet of Śrī Advaitacarya, the Lord of Sitadevi.
