Sundara Kuṇḍala Naina Viśāla
Author: Śrī Vāsudeva Ghosa
(refrain) jaya mādhava madana murārī rādhe-
śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
jaya keśava kali-mala-hārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-
śyāma
(1)
sundara kuṇḍala naina viśālā, gale sohe
vaijayantī-mālā
yā chavi kī balihārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(2)
kabahūṅ luṭa luṭa dadhi khāyo, kabahūṅ madhu-
vana rāsa racāyo
nācata vipina-vihārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(3)
gvāla-bāla saṅga dhenu carāi, vana-vana
brahmata phire yadu-rāi
kāṅdhe kāmara kārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(4)
curā curā nava-nīta jo khāyo, vraja-vanitana pai
nāma dharāyo
mākhana-cora murārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(5)
eka-dina māna indra ko māryo, nakha upara
govardhana dhāryo
nama paḍayo giridhārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(6)
duryodhana ko bhoga na khāyo, rūkho sāga
vidura ghara khāyo
aise prema pujārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(7)
karuṇā kara draupadī pukārī, paṭa men lipaṭa gaye
vanavārī
nirakha rahe nara nārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(8)
bhakta-bhakta saba tumane tāre, binā bhakti
hama ṭhāḍe dvāre
lījo khabara hamārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
(9)
arjuna ke ratha hāṅkana hāre, gītā ke upadeśa
tumhāre
cakra-sudarśana-dhārī rādhe-śyāma śyāmā-śyāma
t:
(Refrain) Glories to the husband of the goddess of fortune, who is the transcendental Cupid and the enemy of the demon Mura. Glories to the divine couple Rādhe Syama, also known as Syama
Syama! Glories to Lord Kesava, who has fine hair, who removes the miseries of the age of Kali— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 1) O Kṛṣṇa, You wear beautiful earrings, and You have lovely widened eyes. Around Your neck hangs the splendrous vaijanti flower garland. Your complexion is most excellent—Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 2) Sometimes You secretly plunder yogurt and eat it, and sometimes You design a rasa-dance performance with the young gopis in the forest of Madhuvana. There dances Vipina-Vihari, You who love to sport in the forest— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 3) You herd the cows in the company of the cowherd boys. You, the monarch of the Yadu
dynasty, thus wander from forest to forest, carrying a black blanket draped over Your shoulder— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 4) Because You, O Murari, repeatedly steal fresh butter from the homes of the women of Vraja and secretly eat it, they have named You ‘Makhan- Chor’ (the butter thief)— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 5) One day You curbed the pride of Indra by
lifting the great mountain Govardhana upon the tip of Your fingernail, thus winning for Yourself the name Giridhari— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 6) You did not accept the sumptuous feast of the wicked Duryodhana, but took the coarse food offered by Your devotee Vidura. Therefore You are worshipped by love and not by mere rituals— Rädhe Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 7) To bestow mercy upon Draupadi, You, the Lord of the forest, supplied unlimited cloth to protect her from shame, while the assembly of men and women looked on— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 8) You deliver each of Your devotees in unique ways. Alas, we who are bereft of devotion are standing here outside Your door. Please favorably receive the news of our presence— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
t: 9) You were the driver of Arjuna’s chariot, and on the battlefield You gave Arjuna the instructions of the Bhagavad-Gita. During the fight You exhibited Your form as the wielder of the discus Sudarsana— Rādhe Syama Syama Syama!
