Nava Gaura Varam
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Sacisutastakam
Author: Sarvabhauma Bhattacarya
: Sac(h)?isuta( )?(a)?s(h)?tak(am|a)?
(1)
nava gaura-varaṁ nava-puṣpa-śaraṁ
nava-bhāva-dharaṁ nava-lāsya-param
nava-hāsya-karaṁ nava-hema-varaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(2)
nava-prema-yutaṁ nava-nīta-śucaṁ
nava-veśa-kṛtaṁ nava-prema-rasam
navadhā vilasat śubha-prema-mayaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(3)
hari-bhakti-paraṁ hari-nāma-dharaṁ
kara-japya-karaṁ hari-nāma-param
nayane satataṁ praṇayāśru-dharaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(4)
satataṁ janatā-bhava-tāpa-haraṁ
paramārtha-parāyaṇa-loka-gatim
nava-leha-karaṁ jagat-tāpa-haraṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(5)
nija-bhakti-karaṁ priya-cārutaraṁ naṭa-nartana-nāgara-rāja-kulam
kula-kāmini-mānasa-lāsya-karaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(6)
karatāla-valaṁ kala-kaṇṭha-ravaṁ
mṛdu-vādya-suvīṇikayā madhuram
nija-bhakti-guṇāvṛta-nātya-karaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(7)
yuga-dharma-yutaṁ punar nanda-sutaṁ
dharaṇī-sucitraṁ bhava-bhāvocitam
tanu-dhyāna-citaṁ nija-vāsa-yutaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
(8)
aruṇaṁ nayanaṁ caraṇaṁ vasanaṁ
vadane skhalitaṁ svaka-nāma-dharam
kurute su-rasaṁ jagataḥ jīvanaṁ
praṇamāmi śacī-suta-gaura-varam
t:
t: 1) His complexion is the hue of fresh cream tinged with kunkum. He is the ever-fresh Cupid who shoots arrows of newly blossoming flowers. He bears newer and newer moods of emotional ecstasies. He is fond of performing novel dances. He makes ever-new jokes that cause much laughter. His brilliant luster is like freshly cast gold. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 2) He is endowed with ever-fresh love of Godhead. His radiant luster is like the color of fresh butter. His fresh attire is arranged in ever- new fashions. He relishes ever-new mellows of love for Kṛṣṇa. He shines in nine-fold new ways while executing the nine-fold processes of devotion. He is permeated with a most auspicious loving nature. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 3) He is absorbed in devotion to Śrī Hari. He maintains the chanting of the names of Hari. While chanting He counts the holy names on the fingers of His hands. He is addicted to the name of Hari. He always has tears of love welling in His eyes. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 4) He is always removing the suffering of material existence for mankind. He is the goal of life for persons who are dedicated to their supreme interest. He inspires men to become like honeybees (eager for the honey of Kṛṣṇa-prema). He removes the burning fever of the material world. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 5) He who motivates pure devotion unto Himself, who is most attractive to His beloved servitors. By
His dramatic dancing He exhibits the characteristics of the King of paramours. He causes the minds of beautiful young village women to dance. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 6) He plays karatals as His throat emits sweet melodious sounds and the vibrant notes of the vina are softly played. He thus inspires the devotees to perform dramatic dancing that is infused with aspects of His own devotional service. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 7) He is accompanied by the sankirtana movement, which is the religious practice for the age of Kali. He is the son of Nanda Maharaja
come again. He is the extraordinarily brilliant ornament of the earth. His preaching mood is suitably adapted to the cycle of birth and death. His consciousness is fixed in meditation on His own form of Kṛṣṇa. He is always accompanied by His transcendental abode. I bow to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
t: 8) His eyes, the soles of His feet, and His clothing are reddish like the color that heralds the rising sun. As He utters His own names, His voice falters. He awakens a sweet flavor to life throughout the universe. I bow down to Gaura, the beautiful son of Mother Saci.
