Nitai Pada Kamala
fficial Name: Manaḥ-śikṣā (Teachings to the Mind)
Author: Narottama Das Thakura
ook Name: Prarthana (Section: Nityananda Nistha Song 1)
(1)
nitāi-pada-kamala, koṭi-candra-suśītala
je chāyāy jagata jurāy
heno nitāi bine bhāi, rādhā-kṛṣṇa pāite nāi
dṛḍha kori’ dharo nitāir pāy
(2)
se sambandha nāhi jā’r, bṛthā janma gelo tā’r
sei paśu boro durācār
nitāi nā bolilo mukhe, majilo saṁsāra-sukhe
vidyā-kule ki koribe tār
(3)
ahaṅkāre matta hoiyā, nitāi-pada pāsariyā
asatyere satya kori māni
nitāiyer koruṇā habe, braje rādhā-kṛṣṇa pābe
dharo nitāi-caraṇa du’khāni
(4)
nitāiyer caraṇa satya, tāhāra sevaka nitya
nitāi-pada sadā koro āśa
narottama boro dukhī, nitāi more koro sukhī
rākho rāṅgā-caraṇera pāśa
t:
t: 1) The lotus feet of Lord Nityananda are a shelter where one will get the soothing moonlight not only of one, but of millions of moons. If the world wants to have real peace, it should take shelter of
Lord Nityananda. Unless one takes shelter under the shade of the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda, it will be very difficult for him to approach Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa. If one actually wants to enter into the dancing party of Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa, he must firmly catch hold of the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda.
t: 2) Anyone who has not established his relationship with Nityananda Prabhu is understood to have spoiled his valuable human birth. Such a human being is actually an uncontrollable animal. Because he never uttered the holy name of Nityananda, he has become merged into so-called material happiness. What can his useless education and family tradition do to help him?
t: 3) Being maddened after false prestige and identification with the body, one is thinking, oh, what is Nityananda? What can He do for me? I don't care. The result is that he is accepting something false to be truth. If you actually want to approach the association of Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa, you must first achieve the mercy of Lord Nityananda. When He is merciful toward you, then you will be able to approach Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa. Therefore you should firmly grasp the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda.
t: 4) The lotus feet of Nityananda are not illusion; they are a fact. One who engages in the transcendental loving service of Nityananda is also transcendental. Always try to catch the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda. This Narottama dasa is very unhappy, therefore I am praying to Lord Nityananda to make me happy. My dear Lord, please keep me close to Your lotus feet.

