Śrī Hari Vasare Hari Kirtana Vidhana
fficial Name: Śrīman Mahaprabhur Hari Vasara Vrata Palana
Author: Vṛndāvana Das Thakura
(1)
śrī hari-vāsare hari-kīrtana-vidhāna
nṛtya ārambhilā prabhu jagatera prāṇa
(2)
puṇyavanta śrīvāsa-ańgane śubhārambha
uṭhila kīrtana-dhvani ‘gopāla’ ‘govinda’
(3)
mṛdańga-mandirā bāje śańkha-karatāla
sańkīrtana-sańge saba haila miśāla
(4)
brahmāṇḍe bhedila dhvani pūriyā ākāśa
caudikera amańgala sarva jaya nāsa
(5)
uṣaḥ-kāla haite nṛtya kare viśvambhara
yūtha yūtha haila jata gayana sundara
(6)
śrīvāsa-paṇḍita laiyā eka sampradāya
mukunda laiyā āra jana-kata gāya
(7)
laiyā govinda ghoṣa āra kata-jana
gauracandra-nṛtye sabe karena kīrtana
(8)
dhariyā bulena nityānanda mahābalī
alakṣite advaita layena pada-dhūli
(9)
gadādhara-ādi jata sajala-nayane
ānande vihvala haila prabhura kīrtane
(10)
jakhana uddaṇḍa nāce prabhu viśvambhara
pṛthivī kampita haya, sabe pāya ḍara
(11)
kakhana vā madhura nācaye viśvambhara
jena dekhi nandera nandana naṭavara
(12)
aparūpa kṛṣṇāveśa, aparūpa nṛtya
ānande nayana bhari’ dekhe saba bhṛtya
(13)
nijānande nāce mahāprabhu viśvambhara
caraṇera tāla śuni ati manohara
(14)
bhāva-vese mālā nāhi rahaye galāya
chiṇḍiyā paḍaye giyā bhakatera gāya
(15)
catur-dike śrī-hari-mańgala-sańkīrtana
madhye nāce jagannātha-miśrera nandana
(16)
jā’ra nāmānande śiva-vasana nā jāne
jā’ra raśe nāce śiva, se nāce āpane
(17)
jā’ra nāme vālmīki hailā tapodhana
jā’ra nāme ajāmila pāila mocana
(18)
jā’ra nāma śravaṇe saṁsāra-bandha ghuce
hena prabhu avatāri’ kali-yuge nāce
(19)
jā’ra nāma laiya śuka-nārada beḍāya
sahasra-vadana prabhu jā’ra guṇa gāya
(20)
sarva mahā-prāyaścitta je prabhura nāma
se-prabhu nācaye, dekhe jata bhāgyavāna
(21)
prabhura ānanda dekhi’ bhāgavata-gaṇa
anyonye galā dhari’ karaye krandana
(22)
sabāra ańgete śobhe śrī candana-mālā
ānande gāyena kṛṣṇa-rase hai’ bholā
(23)
jateka vaiṣṇava-saba kīrtana-āveśe
nā jāne āpana deha, anya jana kise
(24)
jaya kṛṣṇa-murāri-mukunda-vanamālī
ahar-niśa gāya sabe hai’ kutūhalī
(25)
ahar-niśa bhakta-sańge nāce viśvambhara
śrānti nāhi kāra, sabe sattva-kalevara
(26)
ei-mata nāce mahāprabhu viśvambhara
niśi avaśeṣa mātra se eka prahara
(27)
ei-mata ānanda haya navadvīpa-pure
prema-rase vaikuṇṭhera nāyaka vihare
(28)
e sakala puṇya kathā je kare śravaṇa
bhakta-sańge gauracandre rahu tā’ra mana
(29)
śrī kṛṣṇa-caitanya-nityānanda-cāda jāna
vṛndāvana-dāsa prabhu pada-yuge gāna
t:
t: 1) On Ekadasi day Mahaprabhu, who is the life and soul of all beings, decreed that every-one should gather for kirtana. Hearing the sound of His own name, He began to dance in ecstasy.
t: 2) In Śrīvasa-angana, Śrīvasa Thakura’s divine courtyard, He inaugurated the auspicious reverberations of the kirtana in a booming voice: “Gopala! Govinda!”
t: 3) In the courtyard the sounds of the mrdanga, small cymbals, conch, karatalas and beautiful singing all mixed together.
t: 4) The loud sound passed through the entire brahmanda and filled the whole sky reaching Svetadvipa, destroying everything inauspicious in all the fourteen worlds.
t: 5) From morning Visvambhara He who nourishes and maintains the whole universe by bhakti started dancing. Many groups sang charmingly – each group singing a different melody.
t: 6) Śrīvasa Pandita was the guru of one group of kirtaniyas, and Mukunda was the lead singer of
another.
t: 7) Govinda Ghosa was the head of another group. Gauracandra danced in the middle of the whole kirtana party.
t: 8) The mighty Nityananda Prabhu protected Mahaprabhu when He swooned while dancing as Advaita Acarya secretly took His foot-dust at that time.
t: 9) Tears came to Gadadhara, Mukunda, Śrīdhara and others upon hearing Mahaprabhu’s kirtana, as the rising of asta-sattvika bhavas overwhelmed their hearts.
t: 10) Visvambhara danced with so much force that the earth trembled, causing all the devotees to become afraid.
t: 11) Sometimes Visvambhara danced so gracefully and sweetly that He appeared to be natavara Nanda-nandana, the best of dancers.
t: 12) Mahaprabhu’s beauty is unequalled and unsurpassed; defeating even Krsna’s beauty even Kṛṣṇa has no mahabhava. All His followers’ eyes filled with ananda seeing His dancing.
t: 13) Mahaprabhu Visvambhara danced, absorbed in ananda. Hearing the rhythm of His dancing feet, the devotees became spellbound.
t: 14) As Mahaprabhu danced, being filled with bhava, His garland could not stay around His neck but broke, all the flowers falling at the feet of His devotees.
t: 15) The auspicious sounds of śrī harinama- sankirtana spread in every direction while Jagannatha Misra’s son danced in the midst of all the devotees.
t: 16) Siva chants the same blissful name and becomes so absorbed in prema that his cloth falls down. Hearing Mahaprabhu’s glories, Siva starts to dance, and Mahaprabhu, hearing His own glories, also dances.
t: 17) By this same nama Valmiki achieved the wealth of austerity – he saw all Rāma lila. And by this same nama all of Ajamila’s anarthas and aparādhas were pulled out by the root.
t: 18) Hearing śrī kṛṣṇa-nama totally cuts all worldly attachments. Śrī Kṛṣṇa Himself came in Kali-yuga as Mahaprabhu, dancing and advising all to chant kṛṣṇa-nama.
t: 19) Sukadeva and Narada also chant this kṛṣṇa- nama and distribute it. With thousands of tongues Mahaprabhu sings the glories of this nama.
t: 20) Taking Mahaprabhu’s name constitutes the highest form of atonement. Seeing Mahaprabhu dancing, the devotees became supremely fortunate.
t: 21) Seeing Mahaprabhu’s bliss, the devotees
embraced each other and wept loudly as the rays of Mahaprabhu’s ananda entered their hearts.
t: 22) All the devotees attended kirtana and Mahaprabhu personally decorated their bodies with candana and garlands. Śrī Gaurasundara and the devotees sang and tasted kṛṣṇarasa with great joy.
t: 23) Absorbed in kirtana, all the Vaiṣṇava devotees completely lost sense of their own bodies and everyone else around them.
t: 24) “Jaya kṛṣṇa, murari, mukunda, vanamali.” Day and night all the devotees sang kirtana in great happiness.
t: 25) Visvambhara danced twenty-four hours with His devotees but never tired, because His body was sattva-kalevara, fully tran0scendental.
t: 26) Daily Mahaprabhu in full prema danced in kirtana the whole night, and only stopped three hours before sunrise.
t: 27) Daily Mahaprabhu, the hero who enjoys the prema-rasa of Vaikuntha Svetadvipa, tasted and distributed great bliss in Navadvipa.
t: 28) Gauracandra and all His associates enter in the hearts of the devotees who hear the allvirtuous hari-katha with full faith. Thus their hearts become Śrīvasa-angana.
t: 29) Vṛndāvana dasa says, “Śrī Kṛṣṇa Caitanya and the moon-like Nityananda Prabhu are my life and soul and I offer my dandavat-prāṇama at Their lotus feet.”


