Ami To’ Durjana Ati Sada Duracar
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Ucchvasa: Prarthana Dainyamayi Song 2)
(1)
ami to' durjana ati sada duracar
koti koti janme mor nahiko uddhar
(2)
e heno doyalu kebae jagate ache
emata pamare uddhariya la'be kache?
(3)
suniyachi, śrī-caitanya patita-pavana
ananta-pataki jane korila mocana
(4)
emata doyar sindhu krpa bitariya
kabe uddharibe more śrī-caranan diya?
(5)
eibar bujha ja'be karuna tomar
jadi e pamara-jane koribe uddhar
(6)
karma nai, jnana nai, kṛṣṇa-bhakti nai
tabe bolo' kirupe o śrī-carana pai
(7)
bharasa amar matra koruna tomar
ahaituki se koruna beder bicar
(8)
tumi to' pavitra-pada, ami durasoy
kemone tomar pade paibo asroy?
(9)
kandiya kandiya bole' e patita char
patita-pavana nama prasiddha tomar
t:
t: 1) I am certainly the most wicked person, always performing sinful actions. For millions and millions of births I have not been able to gain release from this predicament.
t: 2) Who is so merciful within this material universe as to pick such a sinner up and take me close to Himself?
t: 3) But I have heard about Śrī Caitanya Mahaprabhu, Who is known as the deliverer of the most fallen. Innumerable sinners have already been freed by Him.
t: 4) Such an ocean of compassion He is, Who is distributing His own causeless mercy! When will He deliver me by bestowing upon me His own Divine Lotus Feet?
t: 5) Oh Lord! Now I will really understand the extent of Your compassion only if You are able to deliver this most sinful person.
t: 6) By what means will I get those lotus feet since I am completely bereft of fruitive activities, bereft of knowledge, and bereft of any kind of devotion to Kṛṣṇa?
t: 7) My only hope is Your compassion, for the opinion of all the Vedas is that Your compassion is causeless.
t: 8) You are the very abode of purity, and I am most wicked and evil-minded. So how will I attain the shelter of Your lotus feet?
t: 9) Weeping and weeping, this fallen and most contemptible person says: "Dear Lord, all I know is that Your most celebrated name is Patita- Pavana, the deliverer of the fallen".
