Bhaja Bhakata Vatsala
fficial Name: Bhoga Ārati (at Ṭhākura Bhaktivinoda’s home at Surabhi-kuñja in Godruṁa-dvīpa)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Gitavali (Section: Ārati Kirtan Song 4)
(1)
bhaja bhakata-vatsala śrī-gaurahari
śrī-gaurahari sohi goṣṭha-bihārī
nanda-jaśomatī-citta-hari
(2)
belā ho'lo dāmodara āisa ekhano
bhoga-mandire bosi' koraho bhojana
(3)
nandera nideśe baise giri-bara-dhārī
baladeva-saha sakhā baise sāri sāri
(4)
śuktā-śākādi bhāji nālitā kuṣmāṇḍa
dāli dālnā dugdha-tumbī dadhi mocā-khaṇḍa
(5)
mudga-borā māṣa-borā roṭikā ghṛtānna
śaṣkulī piṣṭaka khīr puli pāyasānna
(6)
karpūra amṛta-keli rambhā khīra-sāra
amṛta rasālā, amla dwādaśa prakāra
(7)
luci cini sarpurī lāḍḍu rasābalī
bhojana korena kṛṣṇa ho'ye kutūhalī
(8)
rādhikāra pakka anna vividha byañjana
parama ānande kṛṣṇa korena bhojana
(9)
chale-bale lāḍḍu khāy śrī-madhumańgala
bagala bājāy āra deya hari-bolo
(10)
rādhikādi gaṇe heri' nayanera koṇe
tṛpta ho'ye khāy kṛṣṇa jaśodā-bhavane
(11)
bhojanānte piye kṛṣṇa subāsita bāri
sabe mukha prakhāloy ho'ye sāri sāri
(12)
hasta-mukha prakhāliyā jata sakhā-gaṇe
ānande biśrāma kore baladeva-sane
(13)
jambula rasāla āne tāmbūla-masālā
tāhā kheye kṛṣṇa-candra sukhe nidrā gelā
(14)
biśālākha śikhi-puccha-cāmara ḍhulāya
apūrba śayyāya kṛṣṇa sukhe nidrā jāya.
(15)
jaśomatī-ājñā pe'ye dhaniṣṭhā-ānīto
śrī-kṛṣṇa-prasāda rādhā bhuñje ho'ye prīto
(16)
lalitādi sakhī-gaṇa avaśeṣa pāya
mane mane sukhe rādhā-kṛṣṇa-guṇa gāya
(17)
hari-līlā ek-mātra jāhāra pramoda
bhogārati gāy ṭhākur bhakativinoda
t:
t: 1) Just worship Śrī Gaurahari, who is always affectionate toward His devotees. He is the same Supreme Godhead, Kṛṣṇa, who sported in the cowherd pastures of Vraja and stole the hearts of Nanda and Yasoda.
t: 2) Mother Yasoda calls to Kṛṣṇa, "My dear Damodara, it is very late. Please come right now, sit down in the dining hall, and take Your lunch."
t: 3) On the direction of Nanda Maharaja, Kṛṣṇa, the holder of Govardhana Hill, sits down, and then all the cowherd boys, along with Kṛṣṇa's elder brother, Śrī Baladeva, sit down in rows to take their lunch.
t: 4) They are then served a feast of sukta and various kinds of green leafy vegetables, then nice fried things, and a salad made of the green leaves of the jute plant. They are also served pumpkin, baskets of fruit, small square cakes made of lentils and cooked down milk, then thick yogurt, squash cooked in milk, and vegetable preparations made from the tower of the banana tree.
t: 5) Then they receive fried squares of mung dahl patties, and urad dahl patties, capatis, and rice with ghee. Next, sweets made with milk, sugar and sesamum, rice flour cakes; thick cooked-down milk; cakes floating in milk; and sweet rice.
t: 6) There is also sweet rice that tastes just like nectar due to its being mixed with camphor. There are bananas, and cheese which is nectarean and delicious. They are also served twelve kinds of sour preparations made with tamarinds, limes, lemons, oranges, and pomegranates.
t: 7) There are buns made with white flour and sugar; buns filled with cream; laddus; and dahl patties boiled in sugared rice. Kṛṣṇa eagerly eats all of the food.
t: 8) In great ecstasy and joy Kṛṣṇa eats the rice, curried vegetables, sweets, and pastries cooked by Śrīmati Rādhārāni.
t: 9) Kṛṣṇa's funny brahmana friend Madhumangala, who is very fond of Laddus, gets them by hook or by crook. Eating the laddus he shouts, "Haribol! Haribol!' and makes a funny sound by slapping his sides under his armpits with his hands.
t: 10) Beholding Rādhārāni and Her gopifriends from the corner of His eyes, Kṛṣṇa eats at the house of mother Yasoda with great satisfaction.
t: 11) After lunch, Kṛṣṇa drinks rose-scented water. Then all of the boys, standing in lines, wash their mouths.
t: 12) After all the cowherd boys wash their hands and mouths, in great bliss they take rest with Lord Balarama.
t: 13) The two cowherd boys Jambula and Rasala then bring Kṛṣṇa pan made with betel nuts, fancy spices, and catechu. After eating that pan, Śrī Krsnacandra then happily goes to sleep.
t: 14) While Kṛṣṇa happily takes His rest on an excellent bedstead, His servant Visalaksa cools Him with a fan of peacock feathers.
t: 15) At mother Yasoda's request the gopi Dhanistha brings remnants of food left on Kṛṣṇa's plate to Śrīmati Rādhārāni, who eats them with great delight.
t: 16) Lalita-devi and the other gopis then receive the remnants, and within their hearts they sing the glories of Rādhārāni and Kṛṣṇa with great joy.
t: 17) Thakura Bhaktivinoda, whose one and only Joy is the pastimes of Lord Hari, sings this Bhoga- ārati song.
