Boro Krpa Koile Kṛṣṇa
fficial Name: Markine Bhagavata-Dharma
Author: A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami (at Boston Harbor, September 18, 1965)
(1)
boro-kṛpā koile kṛṣṇa adhamer prati
ki lāgiyānile hethā koro ebe gati
(2)
āche kichu kārja taba ei anumāne
nahe keno āniben ei ugra-sthāne
(3)
rājas tamo guṇe era sabāi ācchanna
vāsudeb-kathā ruci nahe se prasanna
(4)
tabe jadi taba kṛpā hoy ahaituki
sakal-i sambhava hoy tumi se kautukī
(5)
ki bhāve bujhāle tārā bujhe sei rasa
eta kṛpā koro prabhu kori nija-baśa
(6)
tomāra icchāya saba hoy māyā-baśa
tomāra icchaya nāśa māyār paraśa
(7)
taba icchā hoy jadi tādera uddhār
bujhibe niścai tabe kathā se tomār
(8)
bhāgavater kathā se taba avatār
dhīra haiyā śune jadi kāne bār bār
(9)
śrnvatāṁ sva-kathāḥ kṛṣṇaḥ
punya-śravaṇa-kīrtanaḥ
hṛdy antaḥ-stho hy abhadrāṇi
vidhunoti suhṛt satām
naṣṭa-prāyeṣv abhadreṣu
nityaṁ bhāgavata-sevayā
bhagavaty uttama-śloke
bhaktir bhavati naiṣṭhikī
tadā rajas-tamo-bhāvāḥ
kāma-lobhādayaś ca ye
ceta etair anāviddhaṁ
sthitaṁ sattve prasīdati
evaṁ prasanna-manaso
bhagavad-bhakti-yogataḥ
bhagavat-tattva-vijñānaṁ
mukta-saṅgasya jāyate
bhidyate hṛdaya-granthiś
chidyante sarva-saṁśayāḥ
kṣīyante cāsya karmāṇi
dṛṣṭa evātmanīśvare
(10)
rajas tamo hate tabe pāibe nistār
hṛdayer abhadra sabe ghucibe tāhār
(11)
ki ko’re bujhābo kathā baro sei cāhi
khudra āmi dīna hīna kono śakti nāhi
(12)
athaca enecho prabhu kathā bolibāre
je tomār icchā prabhu koro ei bare
(13)
akhila jagat-guru! bacana se āmār
alaṅkṛta koribār khamatā tomār
(14)
taba kṛpā ha’le mor kathā śuddha habe
śuniyā sabāra śoka duḥkha je ghucibe
(15)
āniyācho jadi prabhu āmāre nācāte
nācāo nācāo prabhu nācāo se-mate
kāṣṭhera puttali jathā nācāo se-mate
(16)
bhakti nāi beda nāi nāme khub daro
"bhaktivedānta" nām ebe sārthak kor
t:
t: 1) My dear Lord Krishna, You are so kind upon this useless soul, but I do not know why You have brought me here. Now You can do whatever You like with me.
t: 2) But I guess You have some business here, otherwise why would You bring me to this terrible place?
t: 3) Most of the population here is covered by the material modes of ignorance and passion. Absorbed in material life, they think themselves very happy and satisfied, and therefore they have no taste for the transcendental message of Vasudeva. I do not know how they will be able to understand it.
t: 4) But I know Your causeless mercy can make everything possible because You are the most expert mystic.
t: 5) How will they understand the mellows of devotional service? O Lord, I am simply praying for Your mercy so that I will be able to convince them about Your message.
t: 6) All living entities have come under the control of the illusory energy by Your will, and therefore, if You like, by Your will they can also be released from the clutches of illusion.
t: 7) I wish that You may deliver them. Therefore if You so desire their deliverance, then only will they be able to understand Your message.
t: 8) The words of Śrīmad-Bhagavatam are Your incarnation, and if a sober person repeatedly receives it with submissive aural reception, then he will be able to understand Your message.
t: 9) It is said in the Śrīmad-Bhagavatam (1.2.17-21):"Śrī Krishna, the Personality of Godhead, who is the Paramatma [Supersoul] in everyone’s heart and the benefactor of the truthful devotee, cleanses desire for material enjoyment from the heart of the devotee who has developed the urge to hear His messages, which are in themselves virtuous when properly heard and chanted. By regular attendance in classes on the Bhagavatam and by rendering of service to the pure devotee, all that is troublesome to the heart is almost completely destroyed, and loving service unto the Personality of Godhead, who is praised with transcendental songs, is established as an irrevocable fact. As soon as irrevocable loving service is established in the heart, the effects of nature’s modes of passion and ignorance, such as lust, desire and hankering, disappear from the heart. Then the devotee is established in goodness, and he becomes completely happy. Thus established in the mode of unalloyed goodness, the man whose mind has been enlivened by contact with devotional service to the Lord gains positive scientific knowledge of the Personality of Godhead in the stage of liberation from all material association. Thus the knot in the heart is pierced, and all misgivings are cut to pieces. The chain of fruitive actions is terminated when one sees the self as master."
t: 10) He will become liberated from the influence of the modes of ignorance and passion and thus all inauspicious things accumulated in the core of the heart will disappear.
t: 11) How will I make them understand this message of Krishna consciousness? I am very unfortunate, unqualified and the most fallen. Therefore I am seeking Your benediction so that I can convince them, for I am powerless to do so on my own.
t: 12) Somehow or other, O Lord, You have brought me here to speak about You. Now, my Lord, it is up to You to make me a success or failure as You like.
t: 13) O spiritual master of all the worlds! I can simply repeat Your message, so if You like You can make my power of speaking suitable for their understanding.
t: 14) Only by Your causeless mercy will my words become pure. I am sure that when this transcendental message penetrates their hearts they will certainly feel engladdened and thus become liberated from all unhappy conditions of life.
t: 15) O Lord, I am just like a puppet in Your hands. So if You have brought me here to dance, then make me dance, make me dance, O Lord, make me dance as You like.
t: 16) I have no devotion, nor do I have any knowledge, but I have strong faith in the holy name of Kṛṣṇa. I have been designated as Bhaktivedanta, and now, if You like, You can fulfill the real purport of Bhaktivedanta.
