Devi Suresvari Bhagavati Gange
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Ganga Stotram
Author: Adi Sankaracarya
(1)
devi sureśvari bhagavati gańge
tribhuvana-tāriṇi tarala tarańge
śańkara-mauli-vihāriṇi vimale
mama matir āstāṁ tava pada-kamale
(2)
bhāgirathi sukha-dāyini mātas
tava jala-mahimā nigame khyātaḥ
nāhaṁ jāne tava mahimānaṁ
pāhi kṛpāmayi mām ajnānam
(3)
hari-pada-pādya-tarańgiṇi gańge hima-vidhu-muktā-dhavala-tarańge
dūrīkuru mama duṣkṛti-bhāraṁ
kuru kṛpayā bhava-sāgara-pāram
(4)
tava jalam amalaṁ yena nipītaṁ
parama-padaṁ khalu tena gṛhītam
mātar gańge tvayi yo bhaktaḥ
kila taṁ draṣṭuṁ na yamaḥ śaktaḥ
(5) patitoddhāriṇi jāhnavi gańge khaṇḍita-giri-vara-maṇḍita-bhańge
bhīṣma janani he muni-vara-kanye
patita-nivāriṇi tribhuvana-dhanye
(6)
kalpa-latām iva phaladām loke
praṇamati yas tvāṁ na patati śoke
pārāvāra-vihāriṇi gańge
vimukha-vanitā-kṛta-taralāpāńge
(7)
tava cen mātaḥ srotaḥ-snātaḥ
punar api jaṭhare so’pi na jātaḥ
naraka-nivāriṇi jāhnavi gańge
kaluṣa-vināśini mahimottuńge
(8)
punar asad-ańge puṇya-tarańge
jaya jaya jāhnavi karuṇāpāńge
indra-mukuṭa-maṇi-rājita-caraṇe
sukhade śubhade bhṛtya-śaraṇye
(9)
rogaṁ śokaṁ tāpaṁ pāpaṁ
hara me bhagavati kumati-kalāpam
tribhuvana-sāre vasudhāhāre
tvam asi gatir mama khalu saṁsāre
(10)
alakānande paramānande
kuru karuṇāmayi kātara-vandye
tava taṭa-nikaṭe yasya nivāsaḥ
khalu vaikuṇṭhe tasya nivāsaḥ
(11)
varam iha nīre kamaṭho mīnaḥ
kiṁ vā tīre śaraṭaḥ kṣīṇaḥ
athavā śvapaco malino dīnaḥ
tava na hi dūre nṛpatiḥ kulīnaḥ
(12)
bho bhuvaneśvari puṇye dhanye
devi dravamayi muni-vara-kanye
gańgā-stavam imam amalaṁ nityaṁ
paṭhati naro yaḥ sa jayati satyam
(13)
yeṣāṁ hṛdaye gańgā bhaktis
teṣāṁ bhavati sadā sukha-muktiḥ
madhura-manohara-pajjhaṭikābhiḥ
paramānanda-kalita-lalitābhiḥ
(14)
gańgā-stotram idaṁ bhava-sāraṁ
vāñchitaphaladam vimalaṁ sāram
śańkara-sevaka-śańkara-racitaṁ
paṭhati ca vinayīdam iti samāptam
t:
t: 1) O Goddess Ganga! You are the divine river from heaven, you are the saviour of all the three worlds, you are pure and restless, you adorn Lord Shiva’s head. O Mother! may my mind always rest at your lotus feet.
t: 2) O Mother Bhagirathi! You give happiness to everyone. The significance of your holy waters is sung in the Vedas. I am ignorant and am not capable to comprehend your importance. O Devi! you are full of mercy. Please protect me.
t: 3) O Devi! Your waters are as sacred as “Charanamriti” of Śrī Hari. Your waves are white like snow, moon and pearls. Please wash away all my sins and help me cross this ocean of Samsara.
t: 4) O Mother! those who partake of your pure waters, definitely attain the highest state. O Mother Ganga! Yama, the Lord of death cannot harm your devotees.
t: 5) O Jahnavi! your waters flowing through the Himalayas make you even more beautiful. You are Bhishma’s mother and sage Jahnu’s daughter. You are saviour of the people fallen from their path, and so you are revered in all three worlds.
t: 6) O Mother! You fulfill all the desires of the ones devoted to you. Those who bow down to you do not have to grieve. O Ganga! You are restless to merge with the ocean, just like a young lady anxious to meet her beloved.
t: 7) O Mother! those who bathe in your waters do not have to take birth again. O Jahnavi! You are held in the highest esteem. You destroy your devotee’s sins and save them from hell.
t: 8) O Jahnavi! You are full of compassion. You purify your devotees with your holy waters. Your feet are adorned with the gems of Indra’s crown. Those who seek refuge in you are blessed with happiness.
t: 9) O Bhagavati! Take away my diseases, sorrows, difficulties, sins and wrong attitudes. You are the
essence of the three worlds and you are like a
necklace around the Earth. O Devi! You alone are my refuge in this Samsara.
t: 10) O Ganga! those who seek happiness worship you. You are the source of happiness for Alkapuri and source of eternal bliss. Those who reside on your banks are as privileged as those living in Vaikunta.
t: 11) O Devi ! It is better to live in your waters as turtle or fish, or live on your banks as poor “candal” rather than to live away from you as a wealthy king.
t: 12) O Godess of Universe! You purify us. O daughter of muni Jahnu! one who recites this Ganga Stotram
everyday, definitely achieves success.
t: 13) Those who have devotion for Mother Ganga, always get happiness and they attain liberation. This beautiful and lyrical Gangastuti is a source of Supreme bliss.
t: 14) This Ganga Stotram, written by Śrī Adi Shankaracharya, devotee of Lord Shiva, purifies us and fulfills all
our desires
