Bhaja Re Bhaja Re Amar
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Gitavali (Section: Bhajan Gita Song 1)
(1)
bhaja re bhaja re āmār mana ati manda
(bhajan vinā gati nāi re)
(bhaja) braja-bane rādhā-kṛṣṇa-caraṇāravinda
(jñāna-karma parihari’ re) (bhaja) (braja-bane rādhā-kṛṣṇa)
(2)
(bhaja) gaura-gadādharādwaita guru-nityānanda
(gaura-kṛṣṇae abheda jene’ re) (guru kṛṣṇa-preṣṭha jene’ re)
(smara) śrīnivās, haridās, murāri, mukunda (gaura-preme smara, smara re) (smara) (śrīnivās haridāse)
(3)
(smara) rūpa-sanātana-jīva-raghunātha-dvandva
(kṛṣṇa-bhajan jadi korbe re) (rūpa-sanātane smara)
(smara) rāghava-gopāla-bhaṭṭa swarūpa- rāmānanda
(kṛṣṇa-prema jadi cāo re) (swarūpa-rāmānande smara)
(4)
(smara) goṣṭhi-saha karṇapūra, sena śivānanda
(ajasra smara, smara re) (goṣṭhi-saha karnapūre)
(smara) rūpānuga sādhu-jana bhajana-ānanda
(braje bās jadi cāo re) (rūpānuga sādhu smara)
t:
t: 1) My dear mind, how foolish you are! Oh just worship, oh just worship the lotus feet of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa in the forests of Vraja! (Oh, without such worship there is no means of spiritual advancement!) Just worship the lotus feet of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa in the forests of Vraja! (Oh, giving up all speculative knowledge and materialistic activities!)
t: 2) Just worship Gaura, Gadadhara, Advaita, and Lord Nityananda, the original spiritual master! (Oh, knowing Lord Gaura and Lord Kṛṣṇa to be the same!) (Oh, knowing the spiritual master to be very dear to Kṛṣṇa!) Just remember the dear associates of Lord Caitanya, namely Śrīvasa Thakura, Haridasa Thakura, Murari Gupta, and Mukunda Datta! (Oh, in deep love for Lord Gaura, you should remember, just remember!) (Just remember the two great personalities Śrīvasa Thakura and Haridasa Thakura!)
t: 3) Just remember Śrī Rupa Goswami, Sanatana, Jiva, and the two Raghunathas! (Oh, if you are engaged in worshiping Lord Kṛṣṇa!) (Just remember the two great souls Śrī Rupa Goswami and Sanatana Goswami!) Just remember Raghava Pandita, Gopal Bhatta Goswami, Svarupa Damodara Goswami, and Rāmananda Raya! (Oh, if you really seek love of Kṛṣṇa!) (Just remember Svarupa Damodara Goswami and Rāmananda Raya!)
t: 4) Just remember Śrīla Kavi Karnapura and all his family members, especially his father, Sivananda Sena! (Oh, always remember, always remember!) (Śrī Kavi Karnapura and his family!) Just remember all the sadhus who follow the path of Śrī Rupa Goswami and who are absorbed in the ecstasy of bhajan! (Oh, if you actually want residence in the land of Vraja!) (Just remember the sadhus who are followers of Śrīla Rupa Goswami!)
