 Kṛṣṇa Tava Punya Habe Bhai
fficial Name: Bhagavan Krsner Pada Padme Prarthana (Prayer unto the Lotus Feet of Kṛṣṇa)
Author: A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami (on board the ship Jaladuta, September 13,
t: 1965)
(refrain)
kṛṣṇa taba puṇya habe bhāi
e-puṇya koribe jabe rādhārāṇī khusī habe dhruva ati boli tomā tāi
(1)
śrī-siddhānta saraswatī śacī-suta priya ati
kṛṣṇa-sebāya jāra tula nāi
sei se mohānta-guru jagater madhe uru
kṛṣṇa-bhakti dey ṭhāi ṭhāi
(2)
tāra icchā balavān pāścātyete ṭhān ṭhān
hoy jāte gaurāńger nām
pṛthivīte nagarādi āsamudra nada nadī
sakalei loy kṛṣṇa nām
(3)
tāhale ānanda hoy tabe hoy digvijay
caitanyer kṛpā atiśay
māyā duṣṭa jata duḥkhī jagate sabāi sukhī
vaiṣṇaver icchā pūrṇa hoy
(4)
se kārja je koribāre ājñā jadi dilo more
jogya nahi ati dīna hīna
tāi se tomāra kṛpā māgitechi anurūpā
āji tumi sabār pravīṇa
(5)
tomāra se śakti pele guru-sebāya bastu mile
jībana sārthak jadi hoy
sei se sevā pāile tāhale sukhī hale
taba sańga bhāgyate miloy
(6)
evaṁ janaṁ nipatitaṁ prabhavāhikūpe
kāmābhikāmam anu yaḥ prapatan prasańgāt
kṛtvātmasāt surarṣiṇā bhagavan gṛhītaḥ
so 'haṁ kathaṁ nu visṛje tava bhṛtya-sevām
(7)
tumi mor cira sāthī bhuliyā māyār lāthi
khāiyāchi janma-janmāntare
āji punaḥ e sujoga jadi hoy jogāyoga
tabe pāri tuhe milibāre
(8)
tomāra milane bhāi ābār se sukha pāi
gocārane ghuri din bhor
kata bane chuṭāchuṭi bane khāi luṭāpuṭi
sei din kabe habe mor
(9)
āji se subidhāne tomāra smaraṇa bhela
baro āśā ḍākilām tāi
āmi tomāra nitya-dāsa tāi kori eta āśa
tumi binā anya gati nāi
t:
Refrain: O, brothers, (o brother) The Supreme Lord Kṛṣṇa will bestow virtue upon you -- but He will do this only when Śrīmati Rādhārāni first becomes pleased with you. This I surely declare to you.
t: 1) Śrī Śrīmad Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura, who is very dear to Lord Gauranga, the son of mother Saci, is unparalleled in his service to the Supreme Lord Śrī Kṛṣṇa. He is that great saintly spiritual master, most magnanimous within this universe, who bestows devotion to Kṛṣṇa in various places throughout the world.
t: 2) His desire is very powerful, and thus he is causing the Holy Name of Lord Gauranga to spread throughout all the countries of the Western World. In all the cities, towns, and villages on the earth, extending to all the oceans, rivers, and streams, everyone may accept the Holy Name of Kṛṣṇa.
t: 3) Thus all directions will be conquered by a flood of transcendental ecstasy flowing with the excessive mercy of Śrī Caitanya Mahaprabhu. When all the miserable living entities that have been corrupted by maya become happy, then the Vaiṣṇava's desire is fulfilled.
t: 4) Although my Guru Maharaja ordered me to accomplish this mission, I am unworthy to do it, being very fallen and incompetent. That being the case, O Lord Kṛṣṇa, Your mercy is today arising in a befitting manner to make me become worthy, for You are the wisest of all.
t: 5) If You bestow Your divine power, then one attains the factual substance which is service to the spiritual master - and life becomes successful. If that service is obtained, then one becomes truly satisfied, and ultimately receives Your association due to good fortune.
t: 6) (As stated by Prahlada Maharaja to Lord Nrsimhadeva in the Śrīmad Bhagavatam, 7.9.28:) "Thus, by associating with material desires one after another, I was following the general populace by falling into a blind well full of snakes. My dear Lord, O Supreme Personality of Godhead! Then the great sage Narada Muni kindly accepted me as his disciple, and instructed me how to achieve the transcendental position similar to his own. How could I ever leave the service of your servant?"
t: 7) O Lord Kṛṣṇa, You are my eternal companion. Forgetting You, I have suffered the kicking of maya birth after birth. If today the chance to meet You occurs again, then surely I will be able to rejoin You.
t: 8) O my dear brother! In Your company I will experience great joy once again. Wandering about the pastures and fields, I will pass the entire day with You in tending the cows. Joking with You and frolicking throughout so many forests of Vraja, I will roll upon the ground in spiritual ecstasy. When, oh when will that day be mine?
t: 9) Today that remembrance of being with You came to me in a very nice way. Feeling great longing I called out for You, O Lord Kṛṣṇa! Only because I am Your eternal servant do I desire Your association so much. Except for You, I have no other refuge.
