Kadacit Kalindi Tata Vipina
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Jagannathastakam
Author: Adi
: Jagannatha( a)?s(h)?tak(am|a)?
(1)
kadācit kālindī-taṭa-vipina-saṅgītaka-ravo mudābhīrī-nārī-vadana-kamalāsvāda-madhupaḥ ramā-śambhu-brahmāmara-pati-gaṇeśārcita-pado
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(2)
bhuje savye veṇuṁ śirasi śikhi-picchaṁ kaṭi-taṭe
dukūlaṁ netrānte sahacari-kaṭākṣaṁ vidadhate
sadā śrīmad-vṛndāvana-vasati-līlā-paricayo
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(3)
mahāmbhodes tīre kanaka-rucire nīla-śikhare
vasan prāsādāntaḥ sahaja-balabhadrena balinā subhadrā-madhya-sthaḥ sakala-sura-sevāvasara-do
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(4)
kṛpā-pārāvāraḥ sajala-jalada-śreṇi-ruciro
ramā-vāṇī-rāmaḥ sphurad-amala-paṅkeruha-
mukhaḥ
surendrair ārādhyaḥ śruti-gaṇa-śikhā-gīta-carito
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(5)
rathārūḍho gacchan pathi milita-bhūdeva-paṭalaiḥ stuti-prādurbhāvaṁ prati-padam upākarṇya
sadayaḥ
dayā-sindhur bandhuḥ sakala-jagatāṁ sindhu-
sutayā
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(6)
paraṁ-brahmāpīḍaḥ kuvalaya-dalotphulla-nayano
nivāsī nīlādrau nihita-caraṇo ‘nanta-śirasi
rasānandī rādhā-sarasa-vapur āliṅgana-sukho
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(7)
na vai yāce rājyam na ca kanaka-māṇikya-
vibhavaṁ
na yāce ‘haṁ ramyāṁ sakala-jana-kāmyāṁ
varavadhūm
sadā kāle kāle pramatha-patinā gīta-carito
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me
(8)
hara tvaṁ saṁsāraṁ drutataram asāraṁ sura-pate
hara tvaṁ pāpānāṁ vitatim aparāṁ yādava-pate
aho dine ‘nāthe nihita-caraṇo niścitam idaṁ
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayana-patha-gāmī bhavatu me

(9) jagannāthāṣṭakaṁ puṇyaṁ
yaḥ paṭhet prayataḥ śuciḥ
sarva-pāpa-viśuddhātmā
viṣṇu-lokaṁ sa gacchati
t:
t: 1) Sometimes in great happiness Lord Jagannatha makes a loud concert with His flute in the groves on the banks of the Yamuna. He is like a bumblebee tasting the beautiful lotus like faces of the cowherd damsels of Vraja, and great personalities such as Laksmi, Siva, Brahma, Indra, and Ganesa worship His lotus feet. May that Jagannatha Svami be the object of my vision.
t: 2) In His left hand Lord Jagannatha holds a flute, on His head He wears peacock feathers, and on His hips He wears fine yellow silken cloth. From the corners of His eyes He bestows sidelong glances upon His loving devotees, and He always reveals Himself through His pastimes in His divine abode of Vṛndāvana. May that Jagannatha Svami be the object of my vision.
t: 3) On the shore of the great ocean, within a large palace atop the brilliant, golden Nilacala Hill, Lord Jagannatha resides with His powerful brother Balabhadra and His sister Subhadra, who sits between Them. May that Jagannatha Svami, who bestows the opportunity for devotional service upon all godly souls, be the object of my vision.
t: 4) Lord Jagannatha is an ocean of mercy and as beautiful as a row of blackish rain clouds. He is the storehouse of bliss for Laksmi and Sarasvati, and His face resembles a spotless full-blown lotus. The best of demigods and sages worship Him, and the Upanisads sing His glories. May that Jagannatha Svami be the object of my vision.
t: 5) When Lord Jagannatha moves along the road on His Rathayatra car, at every step large assemblies of brahmanas loudly chant prayers and sing songs for His pleasure. Hearing their hymns, Lord Jagannatha becomes very favorably disposed toward them. He is the ocean of mercy and the true friend of all the worlds. May that Jagannatha Svami, along with His consort Laksmi, who was born from the ocean of nectar, be the object of my vision.
t: 6) Lord Jagannatha, whose eyes resemble full- blown lotus petals, is the ornament on Lord Brahma's head. He resides on Nilacala Hill with His lotus feet placed on the heads of Anantadeva. Overwhelmed by the mellows of love, He joyfully embraces Śrīmati Rādhārāni's body, which is like a
cool pond. May that Jagannatha Svami be the object of my vision.
t: 7) I do not pray for a kingdom nor do I pray for gold, rubies, or wealth. I do not ask for a beautiful wife as desired by all men. I simply pray that Jagannatha Svami, whose glories Lord Siva always sings, may be the constant object of my vision.
t: 8) O Lord of the demigods, please quickly remove this useless material existence I am undergoing. O Lord of the Yadus, please destroy this vast, shoreless ocean of sins. Alas, this is certain Lord Jagannatha bestows His lotus feet upon those who feel themselves fallen and have no shelter in this world but Him. May that Jagannatha Svami be the object of my vision.
t: 9) The self-retrained, virtuous soul who recites these eight verses glorifying Lord Jagannatha becomes cleansed of all sins and duly proceeds to Lord Visnu's abode.
