Bhale Gaura Gadadharer Ārati
fficial Name: Gaura Gadadhara Aratik (at Ṭhākura Bhaktivinoda’s home at Surabhi- kuñja in Godruṁa-dvīpa)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Gitavali (Section: Ārati-Kirtan Song 1)
(1)
bhāle gorā-gadādharer ārati nehāri
nadīyā-pūraba-bhāve jāu bolihāri
(2)
kalpataru-tale ratna-siṁhāsanopari
sabu sakhī-beṣṭita kiśora-kiśorī
(3)
puraṭa-jaḍita kota maṇi-gajamati
jhamaki’ jhamaki’ labhe prati-ańga-jyotiḥ
(4)
nīla nīrada lāgi’ vidyut-mālā
duhuń ańga mili’ śobhā bhuvana-ujālā
(5)
śańkha bāje, ghanṭā bāje, bāje karatāla
madhura mṛdańga bāje parama rasāla
(6)
viśākhādi sakhī-vṛnda duhuń guna gāowe
priya-narma-sakhī-gaṇa cāmara dhulāowe
(7)
anańga mañjarī cuyā-candana deowe
mālatīra mālā rūpa mañjarī lāgāowe
(8)
pañca-pradīpe dhori’ karpūra-bāti
lalitā-sundarī kore jugala-ārati

(9)
devī-lakṣmī-śruti-gaṇa dharaṇī loṭāowe
gopī-jana-adhikāra raowata gāowe
(10)
bhakativinoda rohi’ surabhīki kuñje
ārati-daraśane prema-sukha bhuñje
t:
t: 1) As I behold the wondrous ārati of my Lords Gaura and Gadadhara, I enter into the mood of Their existence previous to appearing in Nadiya (Their Vṛndāvana lila as Śrī Śrī Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa). It is simply indescribable.
t: 2) Underneath a desire-tree, seated upon a jeweled throne, the ever-youthful couple named Kisora and Kisori are surrounded by all of Their gopi friends.
t: 3) Śrī Radhika and Lord Govindaji are decorated with many shining jewels and pearls inlaid with
gold artwork, enhancing the sparkling splendor of each and every limb of Their transcendental forms.
t: 4) The meeting of Their two bodily forms has generated a luster that brightens all the worlds, and may be compared to a garland of lightning (Rādhā) fixed upon a dark blue raincloud ( Kṛṣṇa).
t: 5) On the occasion of Their meeting there is a concert produced by the sounding of conchshells, bells, karatalas and mrdangas. Such kirtana is supremely sweet and relishable to hear.
t: 6) The cowherd damsels of Vṛndāvana led by Visakha Devi sing the glories of the Divine Couple while the priya-narma-sakhis cool Their Lordships by waving camara fans.
t: 7) Ananga Manjari offers Them sandalwood pulp scented with cuya while Rupa Manjari places a garland of jasmine flowers about Their necks.
t: 8) The beautiful Lalita Sundari holds a lamp of five flames scented with camphor and waves it aloft, offering ārati to the Divine Couple.
t: 9) Parvati, Laksmi, and the personified Vedas cry in great happiness while rolling on the ground and singing of the fortunate position of the damsels of Vraja-bhumi.
t: 10) Bhaktivinoda resides at Surabhi Kunja in the land of Godruma-dwipa, relishing the joy of divine love at the sight of this beautiful ārati.
