Vraje Prasiddham Navanita
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Corastakam
Author: Bilvamangala Thakura
(1)
vraje prasiddhaṁ navanīta-cauraṁ
gopāńganānāṁ ca dukūla-cauram
aneka-janmārjita-pāpa-cauraṁ
caurāgragaṇyaṁ puruṣaṁ namāmi
(2)
śrī rādhikāyā hṛdayasya cauraṁ
navāmbuda-śyāmala-kānti-cauram
padāśritānāṁ ca samasta-cauraṁ
caurāgragaṇyaṁ puruṣaṁ namāmi
(3)
akiñcanī-kṛtya padāśritaṁ yaḥ
karoti bhikṣuṁ pathi geha-hīnam
kenāpy aho bhīṣaṇa-caura īdṛg
dṛṣṭaḥ-śruto vā na jagat-traye ’pi
(4)
yadīya nāmāpi haraty aśeṣaṁ
giri-prasārān api pāpa-rāśīn
āścarya-rūpo nanu caura īdṛg
dṛṣṭaḥ śruto vā na mayā kadāpi
(5)
dhanaṁ ca mānaṁ ca tathendriyāṇi
prāṇāṁś ca hṛtvā mama sarvam eva
palāyase kutra dhṛto ’dya caura
tvaṁ bhakti-dāmnāsi mayā niruddhaḥ
(6)
chinatsi ghoraṁ yama-pāśa-bandhaṁ
bhinatsi bhīmaṁ bhava-pāśa-bandham
chinatsi sarvasya samasta-bandhaṁ
naivātmano bhakta-kṛtaṁ tu bandham
(7)man-mānase tāmasa-rāśi-ghore
kārāgṛhe duḥkha-maye nibaddhaḥ
labhasva he caura! hare! cirāya
sva-caurya-doṣocitam eva daṇḍam
(8)
kārāgṛhe vasa sadā hṛdaye madīye
mad-bhakti-pāśa-dṛḍha-bandhana-niścalaḥ san
tvāṁ kṛṣṇa he! pralaya-koṭi-śatāntare ’pi
sarvasva-caura! hṛdayān na hi mocayāmi
t:
t: 1) I offer prāṇama to that foremost of thieves – who is famous in Vraja as the butter-thief and He who steals the gopis’ clothes, and who, for those who take shelter of Him, steals the sins which have accrued over many lifetimes.
t: 2) I offer prāṇama to the foremost of thieves – who steals Śrīmati Radhika’s heart, who steals the dark luster of a fresh raincloud, and who steals all the sins and sufferings of those who take shelter of His feet.
t: 3) He turns His surrendered devotees into paupers and wandering, homeless beggars – aho! such a fearsome thief has never been seen or heard of in all the three worlds.
t: 4) Mere utterance of His name purges one of a mountain of sins – such an astonishingly wonderful thief I have never seen or heard of anywhere!
t: 5) O Thief! Having stolen my wealth, my honour, my senses, my life and my everything, where can You run to? I have caught You with the rope of my devotion.
t: 6) You cut the terrible noose of Yamaraja, You sever the dreadful noose of material existence, and You slash everyone’s material bondage, but You are unable to cut the knot fastened by Your own loving devotees.
t: 7) O stealer of my everything! O Thief! Today I have imprisoned You in the miserable prison- house of my heart which is very fearful due to the terrible darkness of my ignorance, and there for a very long time You will remain, receiving appropriate punishment for Your crimes of thievery!
t: 8) O Kṛṣṇa, thief of my everything! The noose of my devotion remaining forever tight, You will continue to reside in the prison-house of my heart because I will not release You for millions of aeons.
