Boro Sukher Khabor Gai
fficial Name: Dalalera Gita (The Song of the Broker)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Vaiṣṇava Siddhanta Mala
(1)
boro sukher khabor gāi
surabhi-kuñjete nāmer hāṭ khule’che / khoda nitāi
(2)
boro mojār kathā tāy
śraddhā-mūlye śuddha-nāma sei hāṭete bikāy
(24)
(3)
jata bhakta-bṛnda basi’
adhikārī dekhe’ nāma becche daro kasi’
(4)
jadi nāma kinbe, bhāi
āmār saṅge calo, mahājaner kāche jāi
(5)
tumi kinbe kṛṣṇa-nāma
dasturi loibo āmi, pūrṇa ha’be kāma
(6)
boro doyāl nityānanda
śraddhā-mātra lo’ye den parama-ānanda
(7)
ek-bār dekhle cakṣe jal
‘gaura’ bole’ nitāi den sakala sambal
(8)
den śuddha kṛṣṇa-śikṣā
jāti, dhana, vidyā, bala nā kore apekṣā
(9)
amani chāḍe māyā-jāl
gṛhe thāko, bane thāko, nā thāke jañjāl
(10)
ār nāiko kalir bhoy ācaṇḍāle den nāma nitāi doyāmoy
(11)
bhaktivinoda ḍāki’ koy
nitāi-caraṇa binā ār nāhi āśroy
t:
t: 1) I am singing news of great happy tidings. Lord Nityananda Himself has opened a market-place of the Holy Name in Surabhi-Kunja.
t: 2) The news of its great results is that He is selling the pure Holy Name in that market-place for the price of only one's faith.
t: 3) Lord Nityananda, the proprietor of the market, seeing all the devotees become attracted, is selling them the Holy Name after bargaining with them.
t: 4) O brother, if you want to buy the Holy Name, then go with me. We must go to the presence of that great soul, Nityananda.
t: 5) You will buy the name of Kṛṣṇa, I will take my commission and all of our desires will be fulfilled.
t: 6) Lord Nityananda is greatly merciful. Taking only one's faith, He gives the highest ecstasy.
t: 7) If Nitai sees only once tears in the eyes while chanting the name "Gaura", then He gives all resources to that person.
t: 8) He gives the pure teachings of Kṛṣṇa to everyone and does not care for one's birth, wealth, knowledge and strength.
t: 9) Now, giving up the illusory snare of Maya, either remain in household life or in the forest as a sannyasi for no more troubles remain.
t: 10) There is no more fear of the age of Kali. The merciful Nityananda gives the Holy Name to even the candalas.
t: 11) Bhaktivinoda calls out "Except for the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda there is no other shelter!"
