Durlabha Manava Janma
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Nirvedana Laksana Upalabdhi Song 4)
(1)
durlabha mānava-janma labhiyā saṁsāre
kṛṣṇa nā bhajinu-duḥkha kahibo kāhāre?
(2)
‘saṁsār’ ‘saṁsār’, ko’re miche gelo kāl
lābha nā koilo kichu, ghaṭilo jañjāl
(3)
kiser saṁsār ei chāyābāji prāy
ihāte mamatā kori’ bṛthā dina jāy
(4)
e deho patana ho’le ki ro’be āmār?
keho sukha nāhi dibe putra-parivār
(5)
gardabher mata āmi kori pariśram
kā’r lāgi’ eto kori, nā ghucilo bhram
(6)
dina jāy micha kāje, niśā nidrā-baśe
nāhi bhāvi-maraṇa nikaṭe āche bo’se
(7)
bhālo manda khāi, heri, pari, cintā-hīna
nāhi bhāvi, e deho chāḍibo kon dina
(8)
deho-geho-kalatrādi-cintā avirata
jāgiche hṛdoye mor buddhi kori’ hata
(9)
hāy, hāy! nāhi bhāvi-anitya e saba
jīvana vigate kothā rohibe vaibhava?
(10)
śmaśāne śarīr mama poḍiyā rohibe
bihaṅga-pataṅga tāy bihār koribe
(11)
kukkur sṛgāl sab ānandita ho’ye
mahotsava koribe āmār deho lo’ye
(12)
je deher ei gati, tā’r anugata
saṁsār-vaibhava ār bandhu-jana jata
(13)
ataeva māyā-moha chāḍi’ buddhimān
nitya-tattva kṛṣṇa-bhakti koruna sandhān
t:
t: 1) The human form of life is the rarest opportunity for attaining spiritual perfection. But now I am lamenting, because I've somehow or other been born with such an opportunity, and I wasted it by never worshiping Lord Kṛṣṇa. Oh, to whom shall I tell the tale of this misery?
t: 2) Having married and entered into the entanglements of materialistic family life, I passed my time in vain. I never got any tangible gain or permanent benefit, only trouble and botheration.
t: 3) What kind of world is this anyway? It seems to be just like a magic lantern show that I saw at a carnival, wherein so many shadows and optical illusions dance magically before my eyes. I feel
great attachment and identification with such a world, and thus day after day passby fruitlessly, without any purpose whatsoever.
t: 4) When this body drops dead on the ground then what will remain mine? At that moment, all of my sons and dearest loved ones will not be able to give me any happiness.
t: 5) I work hard just like an ass everyday and now I am wondering for whom am I working so hard? I am still surrounded by so many illusions.
t: 6) I waste every day in useless, insignificant work, and I waste every night controlled by sleep. And in every 24 hours I never for one second consider that cruel death is sitting very close by my side.
t: 7) I live a very carefree life-style, sometimes eating a lot, or eating a little if I feel like it, sometimes I see nice things around the town, or sometimes I do not go out at all, sometimes I wear opulent clothing, or if I'm in the mood, I'll wear something simple. I live so carefree that I never consider that one day I will have to give up this body.
t: 8) My poor heart is plagued by constant anxieties about the maintenance and daily turmoil created by my body, my house, my wife, my family members and my social obligations. All these anxieties are pinching me and destroying all my intelligence.
t: 9) Alas, alas! What a remorseful situation has arisen! I am absorbed in all this trouble, but I never consider that all these things are temporary and subject to perish very soon. After I'm dead and gone, where will all of my material opulences remain?
t: 10) When my body will be thrown in the pit at the cremation grounds, it will simply lie there motionlessly. Then many crows, vultures, ants, and worms will come and playfully sport there.
t: 11) All the stray dogs and jackals will then become very much delighted, and in great ecstasy they will make a festival ground out of my body and will have a huge celebration and feast.
t: 12) Just see, this is the ultimate destination of this material body. And the most amazing thing is that all of my material opulences, house, family and friends have exactly the same destination.
t: 13) Therefore I ask of anyone who has any sharp intelligence: please give up all of these temporary illusions presented by maya, and kindly search after the means to get pure devotion to Lord Kṛṣṇa, for this is the only really tangible eternal truth.
