 Kṛṣṇa Hoite Caturmukha
fficial Name: Śrī Guru Parampara
Author: Bhaktisiddhanta Saraswti
(1)
kṛṣṇa hoite catur-mukha, hoy kṛṣṇa-sevonmukha,
brahmā hoite nāradera mati
nārada hoite vyāsa, madhwa kohe vyāsa-dāsa,
pūrṇaprajña padmanābha gati
(2)
nṛhari mādhava-baṁśe, akṣobhya paramahaṁse,
śiṣya boli’ aṅgīkāra kore
akṣobhyera śiṣya jaya-tīrtha nāme paricaya,
tāra dāsye jñānasindhu tore
(3)
tāhā hoite dayānidhi, tāra dāsa vidyānidhi,
rājendra hoilo tāhā ha’te
tāhāra kiṅkora jaya-dharma nāme paricaya,
paramparā jāno bhālo mate
(4)
jayadharma-dāsye khyāti, śrī puruṣottama-jati,
tā ha’te brahmaṇya-tīrtha sūri
vyāsatīrtha tāra dāsa, lakṣmīpati vyāsa-dāsa,
tāhā ha’te mādhavendra pure
(5)
mādhavendra purī-bara, śiṣya-bara śrī-īśwara,
nityānanda, śrī-adwaita vibhu
īśwara-purīke dhanya, korilen śrī-caitanya,
jagad-guru gaura mahāprabhu
(6)
mahāprabhu śrī-caitanya, rādhā-kṛṣṇa nahe anya,
rūpānuga janera jīvana
viśwambhara priyaṅkara, śrī-swarūpa dāmodara,
śrī-goswāmī rūpa-sanātana
(7)
rūpa-priya mahājana, jīva, raghunātha hana,
tāra priya kavi kṛṣṇadāsa
kṛṣṇadāsa-priya-bara, narottama sevā-para,
jāra pada viśwanātha-āśa
(8)
viśwanātha-bhakta-sātha, baladeva jagannātha,
tāra priya śrī-bhaktivinoda
mahā-bhāgavata-bara, śrī-gaurakiśora-bara,
hari-bhajanete jā’ra moda
(9)
īhārā paramahaṁsa, gaurāṅgera nija-baṁśa
tādera caraṇe mama gati
āmi sebā-udāsīna, nāmete tridaṇḍī dīna
śrī-bhaktisiddhānta saraswatī
t:
t: 1) In the beginning of creation the science of devotional service was received by the four- headed Brahma from the Supreme Lord Śrī Kṛṣṇa. Devarsi Narada's understanding of this divine science was obtained from Brahma. The great
sage Kṛṣṇa Dvaipayana Vyasa, who was empowered to compile the Vedic literatures, became a disciple of Devarsi Narada. Śrīpada Madhvacarya, the founder of the suddha-dvaita school of Vedanta philosophy, who visited Vyasadeva at Badarikasrama in the thirteenth century to learn from him Vedanta philosophy, calls himself a servant of Kṛṣṇa Dvaipayana Vyasa. Purnaprajna Tirtha [Madhva] is the guru and sole refuge of Padmanabha Tirtha.
t: 2) The two other principal disciples of Madhva are Nrhari Tirtha and Madhava Tirtha. Madhava Tirtha accepted the great paramhamsa Aksobhya Tirtha as a disciple. The principal disciple of Aksobhya Tirtha was known as Jayatirtha. Jayatirtha's service was for his disciple Jnanasindhu.
t: 3) Dayanidhi received the science of devotional service from Jnanasindhu, and the servant of Dayanidhi was Vidyanidhi [Vidyadhiraja Tirtha]. Rajendra Tirtha became a disciple of Vidyadhiraja Tirtha. Rajendra Tirtha's servant was known as Jayadharma or Vijayadhvaja Tirtha. In this way you should properly understand this disciplic succession.
t: 4) The great sannyasi Śrī Purusottama Tirtha received his knowledge in the service of his guru, Vijayadhvaja Tirtha [Jayadharma]. The principal disciple of Purusottama Tirtha was Subrahmanya Tirtha. His servant was the great Vyasatirtha [Vyasa Raya]. Vyasatirtha's servant was Laksmipati Tirtha, whose disciple was Madhavendra Puri Gosvami.
t: 5) The chief disciple of Madhavendra Puri was Isvara Puri, and two of his other disciples were the renowned incarnations of Godhead Śrī Nityananda and Advaita Acarya. Śrī Caitanya Mahaprabhu, the spiritual preceptor of all the worlds made Isvari Puri greatly fortunate by accepting him as His spiritual master.
t: 6) Mahaprabhu Śrī Caitanya is non different from
Śrī Śrī Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa and is the very life of those Vaiṣṇavas who follow Śrī Rupa Gosvami. Śrī Svarupa Damodara Gosvami, Rupa Gosvami, and Sanatana Gosvami were the givers of great happiness to Visvambhara [Śrī Caitanya].
t: 7) The great souls Jiva Gosvami and Raghunatha Dasa Gosvami became very dear to Rupa Gosvami. Jiva Gosvami was a disciple of Rupa Gosvami, and Raghunatha Dasa Gosvami, a disciple of Advaita Acarya's disciple Yadunandana Acarya, was accepted by Rupa and Sanatana as their third brother. Raghunatha dasa Gosvami's beloved student was Krsnadasa Kaviraja Gosvami. Krsnadasa Kaviraja was an intimate friend of Lokanatha Gosvami. They lived together in Vṛndāvana and always discussed the topics of
Kṛṣṇa with one another. Lokanatha Gosvami, a disciple of Gadadhara Pandita, had only one disciple, whose name was Narottama Dasa. Narottama Dasa was always engaged in the service of his guru, and he also engaged himself in the service of his guru's intimate friend. Thus he became very dear to Krsnadasa Kaviraja Gosvami. To serve I the feet of Narottama Dasa Thakura was the only desire of Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura, who was the fourth acarya in disciplic succession from Narottama Dasa.
t: 8) Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura was the siksa- guru [instructing spiritual master] of Baladeva Vidyabhusana, to whom he taught the precepts of Śrīmad-Bhagavatam. Jagannatha Dasa Babaji was a very prominent acarya after Śrī Baladeva Vidyabhusana and was the beloved siksa-guru of Śrī Bhaktivinoda Thakura. Bhaktivinoda Thakura's intimate friend and associate was the eminent maha-bhagavata Śrī Gaurakisora Dasa Babaji, whose sole joy was found in hari-bhajana.
t: 9) These treat saintly Vaiṣṇavas are all paramahamsas, or devotees of the highest order, and they are all part of Lord Gauranga's own spiritual family. Their holy feet are my refuge. I have no real interest in devotional service and I am a poor and lowly tridandi sannyai named Śrī Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati.
