Suddha Bhakata Carana Renu
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Saranagati (Section: Bhakti Anukula Matra Karyera Svikara Song 3)
(1)
śuddha-bhakata-caraṇa-reṇu,
bhajana-anukūla
bhakata-sevā, parama-siddhi,
prema-latikāra mūla
(2)
mādhava-tithi, bhakti-jananī,
jatane pālana kori
kṛṣṇa-basati, basati boli’,
parama ādare bori
(3)
gaur āmāra, je-saba sthāne,
koralo bhramaṇa raṅge
se-saba sthāna, heribo āmi,
praṇayi-bhakata-saṅge
(4)
mṛdaṅga-bādya, śunite mana,
abasara sadā jāce
gaura-bihita, kīrtana śuni’,
ānande hṛdoya nāce
(5)
jugala-mūrti, dekhiyā mora,
parama-ānanda hoya
prasāda-sebā korite hoya,
sakala prapañca jaya
(6)
je-dina gṛhe, bhajana dekhi,
gṛhete goloka bhāya
caraṇa-sīdhu, dekhiyā gaṅgā,
sukha nā sīmā pāya
(7)
tulasī dekhi’, jurāya prāṇa,
mādhava-toṣaṇī jāni’
gaura-priya, śāka-sevane,
jīvana sārthaka māni
(8)
bhakativinoda, kṛṣṇa-bhajane,
anakūla pāya jāhā
prati-dibase, parama-sukhe,
swīkāra koroye tāhā
t:
t: 1) The dust of the lotus feet of pure devotees, enthusiastic devotional service, and service to the pure devotees of the highest order are the roots of the creeper of devotion.
t: 2) The holy days like Ekadasi and Janmastami are the mother of devotion for those devotees who respect them. Let the holy places of Kṛṣṇa's pastimes be my places of worship, and bless me.
t: 3) May I always visit all the holy places associated with the lila of Lord Caitanya and His devotees.
t: 4) When I hear the sound of the mrdanga in my heart I always desire to join in kirtana; and when I hear the bonafide songs describing Lord Caitanya's pastimes, my heart dances in ecstasy.
t: 5) Whenever I see the transcendental śrī-vigrahas of Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa I am in bliss, for by taking Their Lordships' prasada we can conquer over the material elements.
t: 6) One day while performing devotional practices, I saw my house transformed into Goloka
Vṛndāvana. When I take the caranamrta of the Deity, I see the holy Ganges waters that come from the feet of Lord Visnu, and my bliss knows no bounds.
t: 7) By seeing the tulasi tree my heart feels joy and Lord Madhava ( Kṛṣṇa) is also satisfied. When I eat the prasada favored by Lord Caitanya it is a new life's experience. Lord Caitanya was very fond of a green vegetable preparation called sak, and there
is another song in this book that tells of the amazing effects of this type of prasada.
t: 8) Bhaktivinoda concludes by saying: "Whosoever attains the stage of enthusiasm for these devotional practices will be supremely blissful wherever he may be."
t: 7) No longer confident of my own strength and endeavor, I have become solely dependent on Your will.
t: 8) Bhaktivinoda is most poor, and his pride has been leveled. Now in accordance with Your will he lives and dies.
