Gangeya Campeya
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Vrndadevi-astakam
Author: Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura
ook Name:Stavamrta Lahari
(1)
gāńgeya-cāmpeya-taḍid-vinindi-
rociḥ-pravāha-snapitātma-vṛnde!
bandhūka-bandhu-dyuti-divya-vāso
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(2)
bimbādharoditvara-manda-hāsya-
nāsāgra-muktā-dyuti-dīpitāsye
vicitra-ratnābharaṇa-śriyāḍhye!
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(3)
samasta-vaikuṇṭha-śiromaṇau śrī-
kṛṣṇasya vṛndāvana-dhanya-dhāmni
dattādhikāre vṛṣabhānu-putryā
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(4)
tvad-ājñayā pallava-puṣpa-bhṛńga-
mṛgādibhir mādhava-keli-kuñjāḥ
madhvādibhir bhānti vibhūṣyamāṇā
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(5)
tvadīya-dūtyena nikuñja-yunor
atyutkayoḥ keli-vilāsa-siddhiḥ
tvat-saubhagaṁ kena nirucyatāṁ tad
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(6)
rāsābhilāṣo vasatiś ca vṛndā-vane
tvad-īśāńghri-saroja-sevā
labhyā ca puṁsāṁ kṛpayā tavaiva
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(7)
tvaṁ kīrtyase sātvata-tantra-vidbhir
līlābhidhānā kila kṛṣṇa-śaktiḥ
tavaiva mūrtis tulasī nṛ-loke
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(8)
bhaktyā vihīnā aparādha-lakṣaiḥ
kṣiptāś ca kāmādi-tarańga-madhye
kṛpāmayi! tvāṁ śaraṇaṁ prapannā
vṛnde! namas te caraṇāravindam
(9)
vṛndāṣṭakaṁ yaḥ śṛṇuyāt paṭhed vā
vṛndāvanādhīśa-padābja-bhṛńgaḥ
sa prāpya vṛndāvana-nitya-vāsaṁ
tat-prema-sevāṁ labhate kṛtārthaḥ
t:
t: 1) You are bathed by streams of splendour that rebuke gold, lightning, and the campaka flower. Your splendid garments are friend to the bandhuka flower. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 2) Your face is splendid with a pearl decorating the tip of Your nose and a wonderful gentle smile on your bimba-fruit lips. You are decorated with wonderful jewel ornaments. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 3) Vrsabhanu's daughter, Rādhā, made you guardian of Kṛṣṇa's opulent and auspicious abode of Vṛndāvana, the crest jewel of all Vaikuntha planets. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 4) By Your order the groves where Madhava enjoys pastimes are splendidly decorated with blossoming flowers, bumble-bees, deer, honey and other things. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 5) Because you became their messenger the eager and youthful divine couple enjoyed the perfection of transcendental pastimes in the forest. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 6) By your mercy the people attain residence in Vṛndāvana, the desire to serve your masters' lotus feet, and the desire to assist in the rasa dance. O Vrnda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 7) They who are learned in the Satvata-tantra glorify you. You are Krishna's pastime-potency. The tulasi plant is your form in the world of men. O Vrinda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 8) O merciful one, they who have no devotion and they whom millions of offenses have thrown into the waves of lust and other vices take shelter of you. O Vrinda, I bow to your lotus feet.
t: 9) A person who is like a bumble bee at the lotus feet of Vṛndāvana's king and queen, and who reads or hears this Vrndastaka, will eternally reside in Vṛndāvana and attain loving service to the divine couple.
