Udilo Aruna Puraba Bhage
fficial Name: Arunodaya Kirtana 1 (Kīrtana songs to be sung at dawn)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Gitavali
(1)
udilo aruṇa pūraba-bhāge,
dwija-maṇi gorā amani jāge,
bhakata-samūha loiyā sāthe,
gelā nagara-brāje
(2)
‘tāthaī tāthaī bājalo khol,
ghana ghana tāhe jhājera rol,
preme ḍhala ḍhala soṇāra aṅga,
caraṇe nūpura bāje
(3)
mukunda mādhava yādava hari,
bolena bolo re vadana bhori’,
miche nida-baśe gelo re rāti,
divasa śarīra-sāje
(4)
emana durlabha mānava-deho,
pāiyā ki koro bhāva nā keho,
ebe nā bhajile yaśodā-suta,
carame poribe lāje
(5)
udita tapana hoile asta,
dina gelo boli’ hoibe byasta,
tabe keno ebe alasa hoy,
nā bhaja hṛdoya-rāje
(6)
jīvana anitya jānaha sār,
tāhe nānā-vidha vipada-bhār,
nāmāśraya kori’ jatane tumi,
thākaha āpana kāje
(7)
jīvera kalyāna-sādhana-kām,
jagate āsi’ e madhura nām,
avidyā-timira-tapana-rūpe,
hṛd-gagane birāje
(8)
kṛṣṇa-nāma-sudhā koriyā pān,
jurāo bhakativinoda-prāṇ,
nāma binā kichu nāhiko āro,
caudda-bhuvana-mājhe
t:
t: 1) When the rising sun appeared in the East, the jewel of the twice-born, Lord Gaurasundara,
awakened, and, taking His devotees with Him, He went all over the countryside towns and villages
t: 2) The mṛdangas (khol) resounded "tāthaī, tāthaī," and the jhājas [large metal karatālas that look like small cymbals] in that kīrtana played in time. Lord Gaurāńga's golden form slightly trembled in ecstatic love of Godhead, and His footbells jingled.
t: 3) All the devotees chanted the names Mukunda, Mādhava, Yadava and Hari, their mouths being filled with the vibrations. They would announce to the still sleeping people, "You spend your nights uselessly sleeping and your days decorating your bodies!
t: 4) You have achieved such a rare human body, but you do not care for this gift. You remain not serving the darling of Yaśodā and slowly fall through your last moments to death.
t: 5) With every rising and setting of the sun, a day passes and is lost. Then, why do you remain idle and not serve the Lord of the heart?
t: 6) This temporary life is full of various miseries. Take shelter of the holy name as your only
business.
t: 7) To penetrate the darkness of ignorance and bless everyone's heart, the holy name has risen like the shining sun.
t: 8) Drink the pure nectar of the holy name. There is nothing but the name to be had in the fourteen worlds. It has filled the soul of Srī Bhaktivinoda Thākura.
