Na Yoga Siddhir Na Mamastu
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Vṛndāvanastakam
Author: Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura
ook Name:Stavamrta Lahari
(1)
na yoga-siddhir na mamāstu mokṣo
vaikuṇṭha-loke pi na pārṣadatvam
premāpi na syād iti cet tarāṁ tu
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(2)
tārāaṁ janur yatra vidhir yayāce
sad-bhakta-cūḍāmaṇir uddhavo’ pi
vīkṣyvaiva mādhurya-dhūrāṁ tad asmin
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(3)
kiṁ te kṛtaṁ hanta tapaḥ kṣitīti
gopyo pi bhūme stuvate ras kīrtim
yenaiva kṛṣṇāńghri-padāńkite smin
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(4)
gopāńganā-lampaṭa-taiva yatra
yasyāṁ rasaḥ pūrṇatamatvam āpa
yato raso vai sa iti śrutis tan
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(5)
bhāṇḍīra-govardhana-rāsa-pīṭhais
trī-sīmake yojana-pañcakena
mite vibhutvād amite pi cāsmin
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(6)
yatrādhipatyaṁ vṛṣabhānu-putryā
yenodayet prema-sukhaṁ janānām
yasmin mamāśā balavat yato smin
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(7)
yasmin mahā-rāsa-vilāsa-līlā
na prāpa yāṁ śrīrapi sā tapobhiḥ
tatrollasan-mañju-nikuñja-puñje
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(8)
sadā ruru-nyańku-mukhā viśańkaṁ
khelanti kūjanti pikāli kīrāḥ
śikhaṇḍino yatra naṭanti tasmin
mamāstu vṛndāvana eva vāsaḥ
(9)
vṛndāvanasyāṣṭakam etad uccaiḥ
paṭhanti ye niścala-buddhayas te
vṛndāvaneśāńghri-saroja-sevāṁ
sākṣallabhante januṣo 'nta eva
t:
t: 1) Let me not have mystic powers, impersonal liberation, the Lord's association in Vaikuntha, or even pure love for Him, if instead of them I may reside in Vṛndāvana.
t: 2) When Brahma and Uddhava, the crest jewels of devotees, saw the intense sweetness here, they begged to take birth here even as a blade of grass. For this reason I pray to reside in Vṛndāvana.
t: 3) Here the gopis glorified the earth, saying: "O Earth, what austerities have you done, so that your surface is now marked with Krishna's footprints?" May I reside in Vṛndāvana.
t: 4) May I reside in Vṛndāvana where, because the Vedas say raso vai sah (The Supreme Personality of Godhead is sweetness), transcendental sweetness attained its highest perfection in the gopis' passionate love.
t: 5) Although only five yojanas in circumference, bounded by Bhandiravana, Govardhana Hill and the rasa-dance arena, it is unlimited in transcendental opulence. May I reside in Vṛndāvana.
t: 6) Because Vrsabhanu's daughter is the queen, and because here the happiness of pure love of God rises, I yearn to live here. I pray: May I reside in Vṛndāvana.
t: 7) Even by performing many austerities goddess
Lakshmi could not enter the great rasa-dance
pastime here. May I reside in the splendidly beautiful groves of Vṛndāvana.
t: 8) May I reside in Vṛndāvana, where the ruru and nyanku deer fearlessly play, the cuckoos, bumblebees, and parrots sing, and the peacocks dance.
t: 9) They who with great concentration read aloud this Vṛndāvanastaka, at the end of this life attain direct service to the lotus feet of Vṛndāvana's master.
