Gopinātha Mama Nivedana Suno
fficial Name: Gopinātha (Part one)
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Upalabdhi Vijnapti Song 1)
: Gopināth(a)?
(1)
gopīnāth, mama nivedana śuno
viṣayī durjana, sadā kāma-rata,
kichu nāhi mora guṇa
(2)
gopīnāth, āmāra bharasā tumi
tomāra caraṇe, loinu śaraṇa,
tomāra kiṅkora āmi
(3)
gopīnāth, kemone śodhibe more
nā jāni bhakati, karme jaḍa-mati,
porechi soṁsāra-ghore
(4)
gopīnāth, sakali tomāra māyā
nāhi mama bala, jñāna sunirmala,
swādhīna nahe e kāyā
(5)
gopīnāth, niyata caraṇe sthāna
māge e pāmara, kāndiyā kāndiyā,
korohe karuṇā dāna
(6)
gopīnāth, tumi to’ sakali pāro
durjane tārite, tomāra śakati,
ke āche pāpīra āro
(7)
gopīnāth, tumi kṛpā-pārābāra
jīvera kāraṇe, āsiyā prapañce,
līlā koile subistāra
(8)
gopīnāth, āmi ki doṣe doṣī
asura sakala, pāilo caraṇa,
vinodá thākilo bosi'
t:
t: 1) O Gopinātha, Lord of the gopis, please hear my request. I am a wicked materialist, always addicted to worldly desires, and no good qualities do I possess.
t: 2) O Gopinātha, You are my only hope, and therefore I have taken shelter at Your lotus feet. I am now Your eternal servant.
t: 3) O Gopinātha, how will You purify me? I do not know what devotion is, and my materialistic mind is absorbed in fruitive work. I have fallen into this dark and perilous worldly existence.
t: 4) O Gopinātha, everything here is Your illusory energy. I have no strength or transcendental knowledge, and this body of mine is not independent and free from the control of material nature.
t: 5) O Gopinātha, this sinner, who is weeping and weeping, begs for an eternal place at Your divine feet. Please give him Your mercy.
t: 6) O Gopinātha, You are able to do anything, and therefore You have the power to deliver all sinners. Who is there that is more of a sinner than myself?
t: 7) O Gopinātha, You are the ocean of mercy. Having come into this phenomenal world, You expand Your divine pastimes for the sake of the fallen souls.
t: 8) O Gopinātha, I am so sinful that although all the demons attained Your lotus feet, Bhaktivinoda has remained in worldly existence.
