Vibhavari Śeṣa
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
ook Name: Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Ucchvasa: Ucchvasa Kirtana: Nama Kirtana Song 2)
(1)
vibhāvarī śeṣa, āloka-praveśa,
nidrā chāri’ uṭho jīva
bolo hari hari, mukunda murāri,
rāma kṛṣṇa hayagrīva
(2)
nṛsiṁha vāmana, śrī-madhusūdana,
brajendra-nandana śyāma
pūtanā-ghātana, kaiṭabha-śātana,
jaya dāśarathi-rāma
(3)
yaśodā dulāla, govinda-gopāla,
vṛndāvana purandara
gopī-priya-jana, rādhikā-ramaṇa,
bhuvana -sundara-bara
(4)
rāvāṇāntakara, mākhana-taskara,
gopī-jana-vastra-hārī
brajera rākhāla, gopa-vṛnda-pāla,
citta-hārī baṁśī-dhārī
(5)
yogīndra-bandana, śrī-nanda-nandana,
braja-jana-bhaya-hārī
navīna nīrada, rūpa manohara,
mohana-baṁśī-bihārī
(6)
yaśodā-nandana, kaṁsa-nisūdana,
nikuñja-rāsa-vilāsī
kadamba-kānana, rāsa-parāyaṇa,
bṛnda-vipina-nivāsī
(7)
ānanda-vardhana, prema-niketana,
phula-śara-jojaka kāma
gopāṅganā-gaṇa, citta-vinodana,
samasta-guṇa-gaṇa-dhāma
(8)
jāmuna-jīvana, keli-parāyaṇa,
mānasa-candra-cakora
nāma-sudhā-rasa, gāo kṛṣṇa-jaśa
rākho vacana mana mora
t:
t: 1) The night has come to an end and the light of dawn is entering. O jiva soul, arise and give up your sleep. Chant the holy names of Lord Hari, who is the giver of liberation; the enemy of the Mura demon; the supreme enjoyer; the all- attractive one; and the horse-headed incarnation, Hayagriva.
t: 2) Lord Hari [ Kṛṣṇa] incarnated as the half-man, half-lion, Nrsimha. He appeared as a dwarf- brahmana named Upendra and is the killer of the Madhu demon. He is the beloved son of the King of Vraja, Nanda Maharaja, and is blackish in complexion. He is the slayer of the Putana witch and the destroyer of the demon
Kaitabha. All glories to Lord Hari, who appeared as Lord Rāma, the son of King Dasaratha.
t: 3) He is the darling of mother Yasoda; the giver of pleasure to the cows, land, and spiritual senses; and the protector of the cows. He is the Lord of the Vṛndāvana forest; the gopis' beloved; the lover of Radhika; and the most beautiful personality in all the worlds.
t: 4) As Rāmacandra He brought about the end of the demoniac King Ravana; as Kṛṣṇa He stole the older gopis' butter; He stole the younger gopis' clothes while they were bathing in the Yamuna. He is a cowherd boy of Vraja and the protector of the cowherd boys. He steals the hearts of all and always holds a flute.
t: 5) Lord Kṛṣṇa is worshiped by the best of yogis and is the son of Nanda. He removes all the fears of the inhabitants of Vraja. He is the color of a fresh rain cloud, and His form is enchanting. When He wanders about, playing His flute, He looks very charming.
t: 6) He is the son of Yasoda and the killer of King Kamsa, and He sports in the rasa dance among the groves of Vraja. Kṛṣṇa engages in this rasa dance underneath the kadamba trees, and He resides in the forest of Vṛndāvana.
t: 7) He increases the ecstasy of His devotees. He is the reservoir of all love and is the transcendental Cupid who uses His flowered arrows to increase the loving desires of the gopis. He is the pleasure of the gopis' hearts and the abode of all wonderful qualities.
t: 8) Lord Kṛṣṇa is the life of the River Yamuna. He is always absorbed in amorous pastimes, and He is the moon of the gopis' minds, which are like the cakora birds that subsist only upon moonlight. O mind, obey these words of mine and sing the glories of Śrī Kṛṣṇa in the form of these holy names, which are full of nectarean mellows.
