Jaya Rādhe Jaya Rādhe Rādhe
Author: Hari Vyasa Devacarya
(introductory verse)
nava-nava raṅgi tri-bhaṅgi jaya,
syāma su-aṅgi syāma
jaya rādhe jaya hari-priye, śrī-rādhe sukha dhāma
(1)
jaya rādhe jaya rādhe rādhe
jaya rādhe jaya śrī-rādhe
jaya kṛṣṇa jaya kṛṣṇa kṛṣṇa jaya kṛṣṇa jaya śrī-
kṛṣṇa
(2)
syāmā gorī nitya-kisorī prītama-jorī śrī-rādhe
rasika rasīlo chaila-chabīlo guṇa-garabīlo śrī-kṛṣṇa
(3)
rāsa-vihārini rasa-bisatārini
piya-ura-dhārini śrī-rādhe
nava-nava-raṅgī navala-tribhaṅgī
syāma-su-aṅgī śrī-kṛṣṇa
(4)
prāna-piyārī rūpa-ujyārī ati-sukuṅvārī śrī-rādhe
maina-manohara mahā-moda-kara
suṅdara-bara-tara śrī-kṛṣṇa
(5)
sobhā-sainī mobhā-mainī kokila-bainī śrī-rādhe
kīrati-vantā kāmini-kaṅtā śrī-bhagavaṅtā śrī-kṛṣṇa
(6)
caṅdā-badanī kuṅdā-raḍanī sobhā-sadanī śrī-
rādhe
parama-udārā prabhā-apārā ati-sukuṅvārā śrī-
kṛṣṇa
(7)
haṁsā-gavanī rājati-ravanī krīḍā-kavanī śrī-rādhe
rūpa-rasālā naina-bisālā parama-kṛpālā śrī-kṛṣṇa
(8)
kaṅcana-belī rati-rasa-relī ati-alabelī śrī-rādhe saba-sukha-sāgara saba-guṇa-āgara
rūpa-ujāgara śrī-kṛṣṇa
(9)
ravanī-ramyā tara-tara-tamyā
guṇa-agamyā śrī-rādhe
dhāma-nivāsī prabhā-prakāsī sahaja-suhāsī śrī-
kṛṣṇa
(10) śaktyāhlādini ati-priya-vādini
ura-unmādini śrī-rādhe
aṅga-aṅga-tauna sarasa-salauna
subhaga-suthauna śrī-kṛṣṇa
(11)
rādhā-nāmini guṇa-abhirāmini
hari-priya-svāminī śrī-rādhe
hare-hare-hari hare-hare-hari
hare-hare-hari śrī-kṛṣṇa
t:
Introductory Verse: All glories to that Person who stands in a beautiful three-fold stance! He is the connoisseur of newer and newer playful sports, and His body is effulgent with the nicest dark complexion. This is Lord Syama. All Glories to You, Rādhe! All glories to You, Hari-priya! O Śrī Rādhe! You are the abode and reservoir of all happiness!”
t: 1) Jaya Rādhe Jaya Rādhe Rādhe Jaya Rādhe Jaya Śrī Rādhe! Jaya Kṛṣṇa Jaya Kṛṣṇa Kṛṣṇa Jaya Kṛṣṇa Jaya Śrī Kṛṣṇa!
t: 2) O Śrī Rādhe! You are a fresh young maiden with slender waist, endowed with the luster of new adolesence, the fairest golden complexion, eternally situated in the sweet blossoming of divine youth. You are the only perfect match for Your most Beloved. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the true
relisher of transcendental mellows, sweet and relishable in every aspect, effulgent that You represent the topmost superexcellence of pure enchantment, and in great pride due to Your awareness of Your own transcendental qualities.
t: 3) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the sportive Princess of the ecstatic rasa dance festival, which You organize every night, the distributor of pure ecstatic rasa mellows to all other living entities, and You love to embrace the chest of Your lover. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the connoisseur of newer and newer playful sports, You like to stand in a three-fold bending posture that always appears ever-fresh, and Your body is perfectly exquisite in both proportion and deep dark complexion.
t: 4) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the most dear loving friend of everyone’s life. You manifest a brilliant splendor of sheer beauty. You are extremely soft and delicate due to Your fresh youth. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the enchanter of the mind of Cupid. You are the giver of great transcendental bliss to all living entities and Your beauty surpasses the best by far.
t: 5) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the manifestor of wonderful beauty while You are gracefully reclining on a flower bed. You radiate the luster of the transcendental Cupid, Lord Kamadeva. Your speech sounds just like the soft, gentle cooing of a cuckoo bird. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are honored by Your own glorious fame. You are the lover of lusty young gopis. Your position is the highest amongst all the different forms of Godhead.
t: 6) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the possessor of a spotless moon-face. Your teeth look just like small round jasmine flowers. You are the very abode of majestic beauty and splendor. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the most supremely magnanimous personality Your body aura radiates out into unlimited eternity. You are naturally endowed with the softness of extremely youthful charms.
t: 7) O Śrī Rādhe! You are fond of walking like a majestic swan. You are the most radiant lover and the instigator of many fun sports and contests. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the embodiment of the most relishable type of beauty and the topmost merciful personality.
t: 8) O Śrī Rādhe! You are just like a golden creeper wound around the Syama tamala tree and are completely full to the brim with ecstatic mellows of purely divine love. Your unique activities are conducted in complete privacy. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are the ocean of all types of happiness. You are the mine of all qualities and you radiate a famous aura of glorious beauty.
t: 9) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the most charming mistress of Your beloved. You are naturally
situated at the topmost level of successive greatness and Your divine qualities are imperceptible to ordinary senses or minds. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are a permament resident of the holy abode of Śrī Vraja. You radiate a most influential aura. You naturally wear a pleasant smile.
t: 10) O Śrī Rādhe! You are the very potency of divine pleasure. Your speech is such that whoever hears it becomes lovingly attached to it. Your breasts are crazed with the wildest desire to be satisfied by Your Beloved. O Śrī Kṛṣṇa! You are endowed with such bodily limbs that each and every aspect of them is very captivating. Your beauty is indeed saturated with an all-prevading, overflowing rasa current. Your chest is beautifully endowed with majestic divine opulences.
t: 11) O Śrī Rādhe! You are celebrated with the most blessed name of Rādhā! You please everyone with your good qualities. You are the only worshippable Queen for Haripriya (the author, Hari Vyasadeva). Hare Hare Hari Hare Hare Hari Hare Hare Hari Śrī Kṛṣṇa!
