Gopinātha Amar Upaya
fficial Name: Gopinātha (Part three)
ook Name:Kalyana Kalpataru (Section: Upalabdhi Vijnapti Song 3)
(1)
gopīnāth, āmāra upāya nāi
tumi kṛpā kori’, āmāre loile,
saṁsāre uddhāra pāi
(2)
gopīnāth, porechi māyāra phere
dhana, dāra, suta, ghireche āmāre,
kāmete rekheche jeere
(3)
gopīnāth, mana je pāgala mora
nā māne śāsana, sadā acetana,
viṣaye ro ‘yeche ghora
(4)
gopināth, hāra je menechi āmi
aneka jatana, hoilo bifala,
ekhano bharasā tumi
(5)
gopīnāth, kemone hoibe gati
prabala indriya, bośī-bhūta mana,
nā chāre viṣaya-rati
(6)
gopīnāth, hṛdoye bosiyā mora
manake śamiyā, laho nija pāne,
ghucibe vipada ghora
(7)
gopīnāth, anātha dekhiyā more
tumi hṛṣīkeśa, hṛṣīka damiyā,
tāro ‘he saṁsṛti-ghore
(8)
gopīnāth, galāya legeche phāsa
kṛpā-asi dhori’, bandhana chediyā,
vinode koroho dāsa
t:
t: 1) O Gopinātha, I have no means of success, but if You take me, having bestowed your mercy upon me, then I will obtain deliverance from this world.
t: 2) O Gopinātha, I have fallen into the perils of material illusion. Wealth, wife, and sons have surrounded me, and lust has wasted me away.
t: 3) O Gopinātha, my mind is crazy and does not care for any authority. It is always senseless and has remained in the dark pit of worldly affairs.
t: 4) O Gopinātha, I have accepted my defeat. All of my various endeavors were useless. Now You are the only hope.
t: 5) O Gopinātha, how shall I make any advancement when my mind has come under the control of the powerful senses and does not abandon its attachment to materialism?
t: 6) O Gopinātha, after sitting down in the core of my heart and subduing my mind, please wake me to You. In this way the horrible dangers of this world will disappear.
t: 7) O Gopinātha, You are Hrsikesa, the Lord of the senses. Seeing me so helpless, please control these senses of mine and deliver me from this dark and perilous worldly existence.
t: 8) O Gopinātha, the noose of materialism has become fixed around my neck. Taking up the sword of Your mercy and cutting this bondage, make this Bhaktivinoda Your humble servant.
