Jaya Rādhā Madhava Rādhā Madhava
fficial Name: Jaya Rādhā Kṛṣṇa Giti
(1)
jaya rādhā-madhava rādhā-madhava rādhe
(jayadever prāṇa-dhana he)
(2)
jaya rādhā-madana-gopal rādhā-madana-gopal
rādhe
(sita-nather prāṇa-dhana he)
(3)
jaya rādhā-govinda rādhā-govinda rādhe
(rupa goswamir prāṇa-dhana he)
(4)
jaya rādhā-madana-mohan rādhā-modana-mohan
rādhe
(sanataner prāṇa-dhana he)
(5)
jaya rādhā-gopinātha rādhā-gopinātha rādhe
(madhu panditer prāṇa-dhana he)
(6)
jaya rādhā-damodara rādhā-damodara rādhe
(jiv goswamir prāṇa-dhana he)
(7)
jaya rādhā-ramana rādhā-ramana rādhe
(gopal bhatter prāṇa-dhana he)
(8)
jaya rādhā-vinoda rādhā-vinoda rādhe
(lokanather prāṇa-dhana he)
(9)
jaya rādhā-gokulananda rādhā-gokulananda rādhe
(viswanather prāṇa-dhana he)
(10)
jaya rādhā-giridhari rādhā-giridhari rādhe
(das goswamir prāṇa-dhana he)
(11)
jaya rādhā-syamasundar rādhā-syamasundar
rādhe
(syamanander prāṇa-dhana he)
(12)
jaya rādhā-banka-bihari rādhā-banka-bihari rādhe
(haridaser prāṇa-dhana he)
(13)
jaya rādhā-kanta rādhā-kanta rādhe
(vakreswarer prāṇa-dhana he)
(14)
jaya gandharvika-giridhari gandharvika-giridhari
rādhe
(saraswatir prāṇa-dhana he)
t:
(1) All glories to Rādhā and Madhava, the treasure of Jayadeva Gosvami's heart!
(2) All glories to Rādhā and Madana-gopala, the treasure of Śrī Advaita Acarya's heart!
(3) All glories to Rādhā and Govinda, the treasure of Rupa Gosvami's heart!
(4) All glories to Rādhā and Madana-mohana, the treasure of Sanatana Gosvami's heart!
(5) All glories to Rādhā and Gopinātha, the treasure of Madhu Pandita's heart!
(6) All glories to Rādhā and Damodara, the treasure of Jiva Gosvami's heart!
(7) All glories to Rādhā-ramana, the treasure of
Gopala Bhatta Gosvami's heart!
(8) All glories to Rādhā-vinoda, the treassure of
Lokanatha Gosvami' s heart!
(9) All glories to Rādhā and Gokulananda, the treasure of Visvanatha Cakravarti Thakura's heart! (10) All glories to Rādhā and Giridhari, the treasure of Raghunatha Dasa Gosvami's heart!
(11) All glories to Rādhā and Syamasundara, the treasure of Syamananda Gosvami's heart!
(12) All glories to Rādhā and Banka-vihari, the treasure of Haridasa Svami's heart!
(13) All glories to Rādhā-kanta, the treasure of
Vakresvara Pandita's heart!
(14) All glories to Gandharvika and Giridhari, the treasure of Śrī Bhaktisiddhanta Sarasvati Thakura's heart!
