Yadi Te Hari Pada Saroja Sudha
fficial Name: Śrī Godruma Candra Bhajanopadesa
Author: Bhaktivinoda Thakura
(1)
yadi te hari-pāda-saroja-sudhā-
rasa-pāna-paraṁ hṛdayaṁ satatam
parihṛtya gṛhaṁ kali-bhāva-mayaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(2)
dhana-yauvana-jīvana-rājya-sukhaṁ
nahi nityam anukṣaṇa-nāśa-param
tyaja grāmya-kathā-sakalaṁ viphalaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(3)
ramaṇī-jana-sańga-sukhaṁ ca sakhe
carame bhayadaṁ puruṣārtha-haram hari-nāma-sudhā-rasa-matta-matir
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(4)
jaḍa-kāvya-raso nahi kāvya-rasaḥ
kali-pāvana-gaura-raso hi rasaḥ
alam any-kathādy-anuśīlanayā
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(5)
vṛṣabhānu-sutānvita-vāma-tanuṁ
yamunā-taṭa-nāgara-nanda-sutam
muralī-kala-gīta-vinoda-paraṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(6)
hari-kīrtana-madhyagataṁ svajanaiḥ pariveṣṭita-jāmbunadābha-hariṁ
nija-gauḍa-janaika-kṛpā-jaladhiṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(7)
girirāja-sutā-parivīta-gṛhaṁ
nava-khaṇḍa-patiṁ yati-citta-haram
sura-sańgha-nutaṁ priyayā sahitaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(8)
kali-kukkura-mudgara-bhāva-dharaṁ hari-nāma-mahauṣadha-dāna-param patitārta-dayārdra-sumūrti-dharaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(9)
ripu-bāndhava-bheda-vihīna-dayā
yad abhīkṣṇam udeti mukhābja-tatau
tam akṛṣṇam iha vraja-rāja-sutaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(10)
iha copaniṣat-parigīta-vibhur
dvija-rāja-sutaḥ purṭābha-hariḥ
nija-dhāmani khelati bandhu-yuto
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(11)
avatāra-varaṁ paripūrṇa-phalaṁ
para-tattvam ihātma-vilāsa-mayam vraja-dhāma-rasāmbudhi-gupta-rasaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(12)
śruti-varṇa-dhanādi na yasya kṛpā-
janane balavad-bhajanena vinā
tam ahaituka-bhāva-pathā hi sakhe
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(13)
api nakra-gatau hrada-madhya-gataṁ
kam amocayad ārta-janaṁ tam ajam
avicintya-balaṁ śiva-kalpa-taruṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(14)
surabhīndra-tapaḥ-parituṣṭa-mano
vara-varṇa-dharo harir āvirabhūt
tam ajasra-sukhaṁ muni-dhairya-haraṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(15)
abhilāṣa-cayaṁ tad abheda-dhiyam
aśubhaṁ ca śubhaṁ ca tyaja sarvam idam
anukūlatayā priya-sevanayā
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(16)
hari-sevaka-sevana-dharma-paro
hari-nāma-rasāmṛta-pāna-rataḥ
nati-dainya-dayā-paramāna-yuto
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(17)
vada yādava mādhava kṛṣṇa hare
vada rāma janārdana keśava he
vṛṣabhānu-sutā-priyanātha sadā
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(18)
vada yāmuna-tīra-vanādri-pate
vada gokula-kānana-puñja-rave
vada rāsa-rasāyana gaura-hare
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(19)
cala gaura-vanaṁ nava-khaṇḍamayaṁ
paṭha gaurahareś caritāṇi mudā
luṭha gaura-padāńkita-gāńga-taṭaṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
(20)
smara gaura-gadādhara-keli-kalāṁ
bhava gaura-gadādhara-pakṣa-caraḥ
śrṇu gaura-gadādhara-cāru-kathāṁ
bhaja godruma-kānana-kuñja-vidhum
t:
t: 1) If you want your heart to be always absorbed in drinking the ambrosial mellows of the lotus feet of Lord Hari, then give up household life, which is full of quarrels and strife, and just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 2) Material riches, youth, long duration of life, and royal happiness — none of these are eternal. At any moment they may be destroyed. Give up all useless topics of mundane conversation and just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 3) O Friend, ultimately the pleasure to be had in the company of beautiful young women turns to fearfulness and distracts one from the real goal of life. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers with your mind intoxicated by the nectarine mellows of the holy name.
t: 4) The taste of mundane poetry does not afford the sweet taste of actual poetry. The sweet mellows of true poetry are found in descriptions of Lord Caitanya, the savior of all souls in the Kali yuga. Enough with the study of any other topics! Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 5) Krishna, the transcendental paramour, stands on the banks of the Yamuna with Rādhā, the daughter of Vrsabhanu, on His left side. He is absorbed in the pastime of playing soft, melodious songs on His flute. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers, Lord Caitanya, who is non-different from the son of Nanda.
t: 6) He is Lord Hari, shining like molten gold and surrounded by His loving devotees in the midst of hari-kirtana, He is the only ocean of mercy for the Gaudiya Vaiṣṇavas. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 7) Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers — Lord Caitanya, who along with His beloved wife Visnu-priya is glorified by all demigods and saintly persons. His home, Navadvipa, is surrounded by the river Ganga, the daughter of the Himalayas. He is the Lord of Navadvipa and the stealer of the hearts of all sannyasi’s.
t: 8) Lord Gauranga is like a powerful hammer which smashes the sin and oppression of the mad-dog of the Kali-yuga. and He is absorbed in distributing the holy name of Krishna, which is the greatest medicine to release one from the material existence. His transcendental form is beautiful , and His heart is full of compassion for the suffering, fallen souls of this world. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 9) Compassion which is free from the duality of “Friend” and “enemy” is always manifest on his lotus face. He is the son of Maharaja Nanda — Krishna, who has appeared in a golden form in the land of Navadvipa. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 10) In this world and in the Upanishads He is celebrated as the all-pervading Supreme Lord. He appeared as the son of a brahmana and is Lord Hari Himself, with a shining complexion of molten gold. In His own abode He sports with His cowherd boy friends. Just worship this Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 11) He is the most wonderful of all avataras because He is the source of all other expansions of God. He is the Supreme Truth, enjoying His pastimes here in this world. He is the embodiment of the most confidential flows that exist in the ocean of rasa.
t: 12) Without strong devotional worship and service, mere mundane scholarship, high family
lineage , wealth and so on are not effective for invoking the causeless mercy of the Lord. O friend, just worship Lord Gaura, the beautiful moon of Godruma’s forest bowers, by the path of unmotivated devotion.
t: 13) In His appearance as Hari, the Lord liberated Gajendra, the king of elephants, from the grasp of the crocodile in the lake, and in His appearance as Śrī Caitanya, He delivered King Gajapati Prataparudra from the jaws of the kali-yuga crocodile who was lying in the lake of politics. Lord Śrī Caitanya is unborn, possesses inconceivable power ,and is likened to an auspicious desire tree. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 14) Lord Kṛṣṇa, who was pleased with the penances and austerities of Indra and the Surabhi cow, appeared in this world as Lord Caitanya, possessing a golden complexion. He is eternal happiness and the captivator of the intelligence of all learned sages. Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 15) Give up all worldly desires, monistic meditation and relative conceptions of inauspiciousness and auspiciousness. In a favorable mood, with loving devotion, just engage yourself in just worshipping Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 16) Remaining devoted to the service of the Vaiṣṇava’s, being addicted to drinking the sweet nectar of the name of Hari, and with a mentality endowed with modesty, humility, and compassion, just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
t: 17) Always worship Lord Gaura, the beautiful moon of Godruma’s forest bowers, and call out to the Lord,” O Yadava, ! O Madhava O Krishna, O Hari, O Rāma O Janardana, O Keshava, O beloved Lord of Rādhā!”
t: 18) Just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers and call out to the Lord “O Lord of the Vṛndāvana forest, which lies along the banks of the Yamuna! O Lord of Govardhana Hill! O sun of the forest of Gokula! O giver of life to the rasa dance.! O Gaurahari!
t: 19) Go to Navadvipa, the land of Lord Caitanya, Read and recite with great joy the wonderful pastimes of Lord Gaurahari. Roll about in ecstasy on the banks of the Ganges, which are marked with the footprints of Lord Caitanya, and just worship Lord Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers. Remember the wonderful pastimes of Gaura and Gadadhara.
t: 20) Become a servant of Gaura and Gadadhara. Listen to the beautiful narration’s concerning
Gaura and Gadadhara and just worship Lord
Gaura, the moon of Godruma’s forest bowers.
