Samsāra Davānala Lidha
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Gurv-aṣṭaka (Eight Prayers to the Guru) (Mangala Ārati)
Author: Viśvanatha Cakravarti Thakura
ook Name: Stavāmṛta Lahari
: http://www.krishnapath.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/10/Śrī-Stavamrta-lahari.pdf
#Śrila Viśvanatha Cakravarti Thakura, who appeared in the middle of the seventeenth century, is a great spiritual master in the Kṛṣṇa conscious chain of gurus and disciples. He says, “One who, with great care and alteration, loudly recites this beautiful prayer to the spiritual master during the Brahma-muhurta obtains direct service to Kṛṣṇa, the Lord of Vṛndāvana, at the time of his death.”
(1)
saṁsāra-dāvānala-līḍha-loka trāṇāya kāruṇya-ghanāghanatvam
prāptasya kalyāṇa-guṇārṇavasya vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 1) The spiritual master is receiving benediction from the ocean of mercy. Just as a cloud pours water on a forest fire to extinguish it, so the spiritual master delivers the materially afflicted world by extinguishing the blazing fire of material existence. I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master, who is an ocean of auspicious qualities.
(2)
mahāprabhoḥ kīrtana-nṛtya-gīta vāditra-mādyan-manaso rasena
romāñca -kampāśru-taraṅga-bhājo vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 2) Chanting the holy name, dancing in ecstasy, singing, and playing musical instruments, the spiritual master is always gladdened by the sańkīrtana movement of Lord Caitanya Mahāprabhu. Because he is relishing the mellows of pure devotion within his mind, sometimes his hair stands on end, he feels quivering in his body, and tears flow from his eyes like waves. I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master.
(3)
śrī-vigrahārādhana-nitya-nānā śṛṅgāra-tan-mandira-mārjanādau
yuktasya bhaktāṁś ca niyuñjato ‘pi vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 3) The spiritual master is always engaged in the temple worship of Srī Srī Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa. He also engages his disciples in such worship. They dress the Deities in beautiful clothes and ornaments, clean Their temple, and perform other similar worship of the Lord. I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master.
(4)
catur-vidha-śrī-bhagavat-prasāda svādvanna-tṛptān hari-bhakta-saṅghān
kṛtvaiva tṛptiṁ bhajataḥ sadaiva vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 4) The spiritual master is always offering Kṛṣṇa four kinds of delicious food [analyzed as that which is licked, chewed, drunk, and sucked]. When the spiritual master sees that the devotees are satisfied by eating bhagavat-prasāda, he is satisfied. I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master.
(5)
śrī-rādhikā-mādhavayor apāra mādhurya-līlā guṇa-rūpa-nāmnām
prati-kṣaṇāsvādana-lolupasya vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 5) The spiritual master is always eager to hear and chant about the unlimited conjugal pastimes of Rādhikā and Mādhava, and Their qualities, names, and forms. The spiritual master aspires to relish these at every moment. I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master.
(6)
nikuñja-yūno rati-keli-siddhyai yā yālibhir yuktir apekṣaṇīyā
tatrāti-dākṣyād ati-vallabhasya vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 6) The spiritual master is very dear, because he is expert in assisting the gopīs, who at different times make different tasteful arrangements for the perfection of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa's conjugal loving affairs within the groves of Vṛndāvana. I offer my most humble obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master.
(7)
sākṣād-dharitvena samasta-śāstrair uktas tathā bhāvyata eva sadbhiḥ
kintu prabhor yaḥ priya eva tasya vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 7) The spiritual master is to be honored as much as the Supreme Lord, because he is the most confidential servitor of the Lord. This is acknowledged in all revealed scriptures and followed by all authorities. Therefore I offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of such a spiritual master, who is a bona fide representative of Srī Hari [Kṛṣṇa].
(8)
yasya prasādād bhagavat-prasādo yasyāprasādān na gatiḥ kuto ‘pi
dhyāyan stuvaṁs tasya yaśas tri-sandhyaṁ vande guroḥ śrī-caraṇāravindam
t: 8) By the mercy of the spiritual master one receives the benediction of Kṛṣṇa. Without the grace of the spiritual master, one cannot make any advancement. Therefore, I should always remember and praise the spiritual master. At least three times a day I should offer my respectful obeisances unto the lotus feet of my spiritual master.
