Madhuram Madhurebhyo ‘Pi
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Kevalastakam
(1)
madhuraṁ madhurebhyo ‘pi
maṅgalebhyo ‘pi maṅgalam
pāvanaṁ pāvanebhyo ‘pi
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(2)
ābrahmā-stamba-paryantaṁ
sarvaṁ māyā-mayaṁ jagat
satyaṁ satyaṁ punaḥ satyaṁ
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(3)
sa guruḥ sa pitā cāpi
sā mātā bandhavo ‘pi saḥ
śikṣayec cet sadā smartuṁ
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(4)
niḥśvāse nāhi viśvāsaḥ
kadā ruddho bhaviṣyati
kīrtanīya mato bālyād
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(5)
hariḥ sadā vaset tatra
yatra bhāgavatā janāḥ
gāyanti bhakti-bhāvena
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(6)
aho duḥkhaṁ mahā-duḥkhaṁ
duḥkhād duḥkhataraṁ yataḥ
kācārthaṁ vismṛtam ratna
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(7)
dīyatāṁ dīyatāṁ karṇo
nīyatāṁ nīyatāṁ vacaḥ
gīyatāṁ gīyatāṁ nityaṁ
harer nāmaiva kevalam
(8)
tṛṇī-kṛtya jagat sarvaṁ
rājate sakaloparam
cid-ānanda-mayaṁ śuddhaṁ
harer-nāmaiva kevalam
t:
t: 1) More sweet than all other sweet things; more auspicious than all other auspicious things; the greatest purifier of all purifying things—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 2) The entire universe, from exalted Brahma down to the lowly clump of grass, is a product of the illusory energy of the supreme Lord. The only thing that is reality, reality, again I say reality— The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 3) That person is a true preceptor, or a true father, a true mother, and a true friend also only if they teach one to always remember—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 4) There is no certainty when the last breath will come and put an abrupt halt to all one’s material
plans; therefore it is wise to always practice chanting from very childhood—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 5) Lord Hari eternally dwells in that place where truly exalted, spiritually advanced souls sing in the
mood of pure devotion—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 6) Aho! What a sorrow, what a great sorrow! More painful than any other misery in the world! Mistaking it as a mere piece of glass, the people have forgotten this jewel—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 7) It should be heard again and again with one’s ears; It should be uttered over and over with one’s voice; It should be perpetually sung and sung anew—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
t: 8) It makes the entire universe seem insignificant as a blade of grass; it splendorously reigns supreme over all; it is full of eternally conscious divine ecstasy; it is supremely pure—The holy name of Śrī Hari alone is everything.
