Jaya Rādhe Jaya Kṛṣṇa Jaya Vṛndāvana
fficial Name: Śrī Vraja Dhama Mahimamrta (The Nectarean Glories of Vraja-dhäma)
Author: Krsnadasa Kaviraj Goawami
(1)
jaya rādhe, jaya kṛṣṇa, jaya vṛndāvana
śrī govinda, gopīnātha, madana-mohana
(2)
śyama-kunḍa, rādhā-kuṇḍa, giri-govardhana
kālindi jamunā jaya, jaya mahāvana
(3)
keśī-ghāṭa, baṁśi-baṭa, dwādaśa-kānana
jāhā saba līlā koilo śrī-nanda-nandana
(4)
śrī-nanda-jaśodā jaya, jaya gopa-gaṇa
śrīdāmādi jaya, jaya dhenu-vatsa-gaṇa
(5)
jaya vṛṣabhānu, jaya kīrtidā sundarīa
jaya paurṇamāsī, jaya ābhīra-nāgarīa
(6)
jaya jaya gopīśwara vṛndāvana-mājha
jaya jaya kṛṣṇa-sakhā baṭu dwija-rāja
(7)
jaya rāma-ghāta, jaya rohiṇī-nandana
jaya jaya vṛndāvana-bāsī jata jana
(8)
jaya dvija-patnī, jaya nāga-kanyā-gaṇa
bhaktite jāhārā pāilo govinda-caraṇa
(9)
śrī-rasa-maṇḍala jaya, jaya rādhā-śyāma
jaya jaya rasa-līlā sarva-manorama
(10)
jaya jayojjwala-rasa sarva-rasa-sāra
parakīyā-bhāve jāhā brajete pracāra
(11)
śrī-jāhnavā-pāda-padma koriyā smaraṇa
dīna kṛṣṇa-dāsa kohe nāma-saṅkīrtana
t:
t: 1) All glories to Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa and the divine forest of Vṛndāvana. All glories to the three presiding Deities of Vṛndāvana--Śrī Govinda, Gopinātha, and Madana-mohana.
t: 2) All glories to Syama-kunda, Rādhā-kunda, Govardhana Hill, and the Yamuna River (Kalindi). All glories to the great forest known as Mahavana, where Kṛṣṇa and Balarama displayed all of Their childhood pastimes.
t: 3) All glories to Kesi-ghata, where Kṛṣṇa killed the Kesi demon. All glories to the Vamsi-vata tree, where Kṛṣṇa attracted all the gopis to come by playing His flute. Glories to all of the twelve forests of Vraja. At these places the son of Nanda, Śrī Kṛṣṇa, performed all of His pastimes.
t: 4) All glories to Kṛṣṇa's divine father and mother Nanda and Yasoda. All glories to the cowherd boys, headed by Śrīdama, the older brother of Śrīmati Rādhārāni and Ananga Manjari. All glories to the cows and calves of Vraja.
t: 5) All glories to Rādhā's divine father and mother, Vrsabhanu and the beautiful Kirtida. All glories to Paurnamasi, the mother of Sandipani Muni, grandmother of Madhumangala and Nandimukhi, and beloved disciple of Devarsi Narada. All glories to the young cowherd maidens of Vraja.
t: 6) All glories, all glories to Gopisvara Siva, who resides in Vṛndāvana in order to protect the holy dhama. All glories, all glories to Kṛṣṇa's funny Brahmana friend, Madhumangala.
t: 7) All glories to Rāma-ghata, where Lord Balarama performed His rasa dance. All glories to Lord Balarama, the son of Rohini. All glories, all glories to all of the residents of Vṛndāvana.
t: 8) All glories to the wives of the proud Vedic brahmanas. All glories to the wives of the Kaliya serpent. Through pure devotion they all obtained the lotus feet of Lord Govinda.
t: 9) All glories to the place where the rasa dance of Śrī Kṛṣṇa was performed. All glories to Rādhā and Syama. All glories, all glories to the divine rasa dance, which is the most beautiful of all Lord Kṛṣṇa's pastimes.
t: 10) All glories, all glories to the mellow of conjugal love, which is the most excellent of all rasas and is propagated in Vraja by Śrī Kṛṣṇa in the form of the divine parakiya-bhava [paramour love].
t: 11) Remembering the lotus feet of Lord Nityananda's consort Śrī Jahnava Devi, this very fallen and lowly servant of Kṛṣṇa sings the sankirtana of the holy name.
