Gaurangera Duti Pada
fficial Name: Sāvaraṇa-śrī-gaura-mahimā (The Glories of Śrī Gauräìga)
Author: Narottama Das Thakura
ook Name:Prarthana
(1)
gaurāṅgera duṭi pada, jār dhana sampada,
se jāne bhakati-rasa-sār
gaurāṅgera madhura-līlā, jār karṇe praveśilā,
hṛdoya nirmala bhelo tār
(2)
je gaurāṅgera nāma loy, tāra hoy premodoy,
tāre mui jāi bolihāri
gaurāṅga-guṇete jhure, nitya-līlā tāre sphure,
se jana bhakati-adhikārī
(3)
gaurāṅgera saṅgi-gaṇe, nitya-siddha kori’ māne,
se jāy brajendra-suta-pāś
śrī-gauḍa-maṇḍala-bhūmi, jebā jāne cintāmaṇi,
tāra hoy braja-bhūme bās
(4)
gaura-prema-rasārṇave, śe taraṅge jebā ḍube,
se rādhā-mādhava-antaraṅga
gṛhe bā vanete thāke, ‘hā gaurāṅga’ bo’le ḍāke,
narottama māge tāra saṅga
t:
t: 1) Anyone who has accepted the two lotus feet of Lord Caitanya can understand the true essence of devotional service. If one is captivated by the pleasing pastimes of Lord Caitanya, the dirty things in his heart will all become cleansed.
t: 2) One who simply takes the holy name of Gaurasundara, Śrī Kṛṣṇa Caitanya, will immediately develop love of God. To such a person I say: Bravo! Very nice! Excellent! If one appreciates the merciful pastimes of Lord Caitanya and feels ecstasy and sometimes cries, this process will immediately help him to understand the eternal pastimes of Rādhā- Kṛṣṇa.
t: 3) Simply by understanding that the associates of Lord Gauranga are eternally free from material contamination, one can immediately be promoted to the transcendental abode of Lord Kṛṣṇa. If one
simply understands that the land of Navadvipa is not different from Vṛndāvana, then he actually lives in Vṛndāvana.
t: 4) If one says: "Let me dive deep into the waves of the nectarean ocean of the transcendental loving movement introduced by Lord Caitanya", he immediately becomes one of the confidential devotees of Rādhā and Kṛṣṇa. It does not matter whether one is a householder living at home or a vanaprastha or sannyasi living in the forest, if he chants "O Gauranga, and becomes a devotee of Lord Caitanya, then Narottama dasa begs to have his association.
