Nava Nirada Nindita
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Vrajaraja-Sutastakam
(1)
nava-nīrada-nindita-kānti-dharaṁ
rasa-sāgara-nāgara-bhūpa-varam śubha-vańkima-cāru-śikhaṇḍa-śikhaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(2)
bhru-viśańkita-vańkima-śakra-dhanuṁ mukha-candra-vinindita-koṭi-vidhum mṛdu-manda-suhāsya-subhāṣya-yutaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(3)
suvikampad-anańga-sad-ańga-dharaṁ vraja-vāsi-manohara-veśa-karam
bhṛśa-lāñchita-nīla-saroja dṛśaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(4)
alakāvali-maṇḍita-bhāla-taṭaṁ
śruti-dolita-mākara-kuṇḍalakam
kaṭi-veṣṭita-pīta-paṭam sudhaṭaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(5)
kala-nūpura-rājita-cāru-padaṁ
maṇi-rañjita-gañjita-bhṛńga-madam dhvaja-vajra-jhaṣāńkita-pāda-yugaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(6)
bhṛśa-candana-carcita-cāru-tanuṁ maṇi-kaustubha-garhita-bhānu-tanum vraja-bāla-śiromaṇi-rūpa-dhṛtaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(7)
sura-vṛnda-suvandya-mukunda-hariṁ sura-nātha-śiromaṇi-sarva-gurum
giridhāri-murāri-purāri-paraṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
(8)
vṛṣabhānu-sutā-vara-keli-paraṁ
rasa-rāja-śiromaṇi-veśa-dharam
jagad-īśvaram-īśvaram-īḍya-varaṁ
bhaja kṛṣṇa-nidhiṁ vraja-rāja-sutam
t:
t: 1) He Whose complexion conquers that of a fresh new raincloud Who is the best King of Paramours, the ocean of ecstatic mellows Whose crown is adorned with a lovely peacock feather And is auspiciously tilted to one side Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 2) He Whose broadly bending eyebrows appear like arched rainbows, Whose pure moonlike face belittles millions of ordinary moons, Who is endowed with sweet gentle smiles and pleasant speech Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 3) He Whose divine bodily limbs tremble profusely with Cupid’s agitations, Who dresses enchantingly just to fascinate the Vraja vasis, Who is decorated with extraordinary eyes like blue lotus blossoms. Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 4) He Whose forehead is surrounded by a fringe of wavy locks, Whose earlobes are embellished with swaying shark shaped earrings, Who is adorned with yellow silk embracing His charming hips. Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 5) He Whose beautiful feet resound with softly tinkling ankle bells that madden all the bees with their vibration of swinging gemstones, Whose soles are marked with the flag, thunderbolt, fish and more. Just worship Krishna the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 6) He Whose graceful form is smeared with profuse sandalwood paste, Whose body glows with the Kaustubha gem, eclipsing the sun, Whose personal beauty represents the topmost zenith of Vraja youths, Just worship Krishna the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 7) He Who is Mukunda and Hari, worshipable for all the demigods and sages, Who is the guru of all created beings, the crest jewel of all Lords, Who is known as Giridhari and Murari, more exalted even than Lord Siva, Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
t: 8) He Who is most fond of sporting with the Daughter of Vrsabhanu Who dresses impeccably as the Crown Prince of Mellow Relishers, Who is the most praiseworthy Lord of Lords in the entire universe, Just worship Krishna, the Dark Jewel, the son of the King of Vraja.
