Hari Haraye Namah Kṛṣṇa Yadavaya Namah
fficial Name: Nama Sankirtana
Author: Narottama Das Thakura
(1)
hari haraye namaḥ kṛṣṇa yādavāya namaḥ
yādavāya mādhavāya keśavāya namaḥ
(2)
gopāla govinda rāma śrī-madhusūdana
giridhārī gopīnātha madana-mohana
(3)
śrī-caitanya-nityānanda śrī-advaita-sītā
hari guru vaiṣṇaba bhāgavata gītā
(4)
śrī-rūpa sanātana bhaṭṭa-raghunātha
śrī-jīva gopāla-bhaṭṭa dāsa-raghunātha
(5)
ei chay gosāir kori caraṇa vandan
jāhā hoite bighna-nāś abhīṣṭa-pūraṇ
(6)
ei chay gosāi jār—mui tār dās
tā-sabāra pada-reṇu mora pañca-grās
(7)
tādera caraṇa-sebi-bhakta-sane bās
janame janame hoy ei abhilāṣ
(8)
ei chay gosāi jabe braje koilā bās
rādhā-kṛṣṇa-nitya-līlā korilā prakāś
(9)
ānande bolo hari bhaja bṛndāban
śrī-guru-vaiṣṇaba-pade majāiyā man
(10)
śrī-guru-vaiṣṇaba-pada-padma kori āś
nāma-sańkīrtana kohe narottama dāsa
t:
t: 1) Hari! Obeisances to Lord Hari, unto Kṛṣṇa, and Yadava. Obeisances to Lord of the Yadus, Madhava, Kesava.
t: 2) Gopala! Govinda! Rāma! O vanquisher of Madhu! Giridhari! Lord of the gopis! Bewilderer of cupid!
t: 3) Śrī Caitanya, Nityananda, Śrī Advaita-Sita! Hari! Guru! Vaiṣṇavas! Śrīmad Bhagavatam! Bhagavad Gita!
t: 4) All glories to Śrīla Rupa Goswami, Sanatana Goswami and Raghunatha Bhatta Goswami, to Śrīla Jiva Goswami, Gopala Bhatta Goswami, and Raghunatha Dasa Goswami!
t: 5) I bow to the feet of these six Goswamis. By their grace, our obstacles can be destroyed and all desires are fulfilled.
t: 6) I am the servant of these six Goswamis. The dust of their lotus feet is my fivefold subsistence.
t: 7) To be a servant of their lotus feet and to reside in the company of devotees--this is my aspiration birth after birth.
t: 8) When these six Goswamis lived in Vraja, they revealed the eternal pastimes of Śrī Śrī Rādhā and
Kṛṣṇa.
t: 9) In ecstasy, sing the name of Lord Hari and worship Vṛndāvana, joyfully fixing your mind upon the lotus feet of the bona-fide spiritual master and the pure devotees.
t: 10) The lotus feet of my guru and the vaiṣṇavas are my aspiration. Narottama Dasa thus sings Hari-nama sankirtana.
