Kunkumakta Kancanabja
fficial Name: Śrī Śrī Radhikastakam
Author: Krsnadasa Kaviraja
ook Name: Suka Sari Stava (Section: Chapter 2 Verses 59-67)
(1)
kuṅkumākta-kāñcanābja-garva-hāri-gaurabhā pītanāñcitābja-gandha-kīrti-nindi-saurabhā ballaveśa-sūnu-sarva-vāñcitārtha-sādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(2)
kauravinda-kānti-nindi-citra-paṭṭa-śāṭikā kṛṣṇa-matta-bhṛṅga-keli-phulla-puṣpa-vāṭikā kṛṣṇa-nitya-saṅgamārtha-padma-bandhu-rādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(3)
saukumārya-sṛṣṭa-pallavāli-kīrti-nigrahā candra-candanotpalendu-sevya-śīta-vigrahā svābhimarśa-ballavīśa-kāma-tāpa-bādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(4)
viśva-vandya-yauvatābhivanditāpi yā ramā rūpa-navya-yauvanādi-saṁpadā na yat-samā
śīla-hārda-līlayā ca sā yato ‘sti nādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(5)
rāsa-lāsya-gīta-narma-sat-kalāli-paṇḍitā prema-ramya-rūpa-veśa-sad-guṇāli-maṇḍitā viśva-navya-gopa-yoṣid-ālito ‘pi yādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(6)
nitya-navya-rūpa-keli-kṛṣṇa-bhāva-sampadā kṛṣṇa-rāga-bandha-gopa-yauvateṣu kampadā kṛṣṇa-rūpa-veśa-keli-lagna-sat-samādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(7)
sveda-kampa-kaṇṭakāśru-gadgadādi-sañcitā marṣa-harṣa-vāmatādi-bhāva-bhuṣaṇāñcitā kṛṣṇa-netra-toṣi-ratna-maṇḍanāli-dādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(8)
yā kṣaṇārdha-kṛṣṇa-viprayoga-santatoditāneka- dainya-cāpalādi-bhāva-vṛnda-toditā
yatna-labdha-kṛṣṇa-saṅga-nirgatākhilādhikā
mahyam ātma-pāda-padma-dāsya-dāstu rādhikā
(9)
aṣṭakena yas tv anena nauti kṛṣṇa-vallabhāṁ
darśane ‘pi śailajādi-yoṣidāli-durlabhām kṛṣṇa-saṅga-nanditātma-dāsya-sīdhu-bhājanaṁ
taṁ karoti nanditāli-sañcayāśu sā janam
t:
t: 1) Her splendorous golden complexion steals the pride of a golden lotus flower anointed with a tinge of red kunkum. Her sweet fragrance mocks the fame of the aroma of a lotus flower sprinkled with saffron powder. She is fully qualified to fulfill all the desires of the son of the king of the cowherd men. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 2) Her amazing and colorful silken garments make the splendor of red coral feel ashamed. She is a garden of blossoming flowers where the maddened bumble-bee named Kṛṣṇa performs amorous pastimes. She worships the Sun-god daily in order to attain the continual association of Her beloved Kṛṣṇa. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 3) Her charming youthful delicacy negates the fame of the freshly-sprouted leaves. Her refreshing form is worthy of being served by the cooling moon, sandalwood paste, lotus flowers, and camphor. When She touches the master of the gopis, She dispels the burning heat of His lusty desires. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 4) Although the goddess of fortune, Laksmi Devi, is adored by other youthful goddesses, who are themselves, glorified throughout the universe, still she is nowhere near Śrī Radhika in the matter of beauty, praiseworthy youthfulness, or other divine feminine opulences. There is no one in the material or the spiritual worlds superior to Radhika in the expression of naturally loving pastimes. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 5) She is very learned in many transcendental arts, such as performing in the rasa dance, singing, and joking. She is decorated with many divine qualities, such as loving nature, exquisite beauty, and wonderful garments and ornaments. Even among the cowherd damsels of Vraja, who are praised by the entire universe, She is the best in every way. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 6) She possesses the opulences of eternal youthful beauty, eternal pastimes, and eternal love for Kṛṣṇa. Her ecstatic feelings of love for Kṛṣṇa cause the gopis, who are also in love with Kṛṣṇa, to tremble. She is always attached to meditating on Śrī Krsna’s beautiful form, ornaments, garments, and pastimes. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 7) She is graced with eight ecstatic symptoms (sattvika-bhava), such as trembling, perspiring, standing up on bodily hairs, tears, faltering of the voice, and so forth. She is adorned with different ecstatic emotional ornaments, such as impatience, joy, contrariness, and so forth. She is decorated with beautiful jewels that give total delight to the eyes of Kṛṣṇa. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 8) If She is apart from Kṛṣṇa, for even half a moment, She becomes stricken with wretched suffering, restlessness, and a multitude of other ecstatic symptoms of separation. When She regains the association of Kṛṣṇa after some effort, then all of Her anguish immediately vanishes. May Śrī Radhika bestow upon me the service of Her own lotus feet.
t: 9) It is very difficult for Parvati and other exalted goddesses to attain even a glimpse of Śrīmati Rādhārāni, who is dear to Lord Kṛṣṇa. But if someone glorifies Her by reciting these eight verses, then She who is delighted by Krsna’s continuous association will grant the sweet nectar of Her personal service to that person, who thereby enters the assembly of Her similarly delighted girlfriends.
